Mozilla Firefox, Firefox Browser, or simply Firefox, is a free and open-source web browser developed by the Mozilla Foundation and its subsidiary, Mozilla Corporation. Firefox uses the Gecko layout engine to render web pages, which implements current and anticipated web standards. In 2017, Firefox began incorporating new technology under the code name Quantum to promote parallelism and a more intuitive user interface. Firefox is officially available for Windows 7 or newer, macOS and Linux; are available for various Unix and Unix-like operating systems including FreeBSD, OpenBSD, NetBSD, illumos and Solaris Unix. Firefox is also available for Android and iOS, however the iOS version uses the WebKit layout engine instead of Gecko due to platform limitations, as with all other iOS web browsers. Firefox was created in 2002 under the codename "Phoenix" by the Mozilla community members who desired a standalone browser, rather than the Mozilla Application Suite bundle. During its beta phase, Firefox proved to be popular with its testers and was praised for its speed, security, and add-ons compared to Microsoft's then-dominant Internet Explorer&nbsp;6. Firefox was released on November 9, 2004, and challenged Internet Explorer's dominance with 60 million downloads within nine months. Firefox is the spiritual successor of Netscape Navigator, as the Mozilla community was created by Netscape in 1998 before their acquisition by AOL. Firefox usage grew to a peak of 32.21% at the end of 2009, with version 3.5 overtaking Internet Explorer 7, although not all versions of Internet Explorer as a whole. Usage then declined in competition with Google Chrome. , Firefox has 9.54% usage share as a "desktop" browser, according to StatCounter, making it the second-most popular browser against Google Chrome with 69.08% . According to Mozilla, in December 2014, there were half a billion Firefox users around the world. Although the majority of countries have Google Chrome as their main web browser, Firefox still has over 50% desktop usage in Cuba and Eritrea. Firefox also still has a large amount of usage in several countries in Africa, as well as Germany, Iran, Armenia, and Myanmar although Google Chrome is more widely used in all of them. __TOC__. The project began as an experimental branch of the Mozilla project by Dave Hyatt, Joe Hewitt, and Blake Ross. They believed the commercial requirements of Netscape's sponsorship and developer-driven feature creep compromised the utility of the Mozilla browser. To combat what they saw as the Mozilla Suite's software bloat, they created a stand-alone browser, with which they intended to replace the Mozilla Suite. On April 3, 2003, the Mozilla Organization announced that they planned to change their focus from the Mozilla Suite to Firefox and Thunderbird. The community-driven SeaMonkey was formed and eventually replaced the Mozilla Application Suite in 2005. The Firefox project has undergone several name changes. The nascent browser was originally named Phoenix, after the mythical bird that rose triumphantly from the ashes of its dead predecessor . Mozilla began roll-out of a fix shortly thereafter, using their Mozilla Studies component.. Features include tabbed browsing, spell checking, incremental search, live bookmarking, Smart Bookmarks, a download manager, private browsing, location-aware browsing in about:config: if network.trr.mode is 0, DoH is disabled; 1 activates DoH in addition to unencrypted DNS; 2 causes DoH to be used before unencrypted DNS; to use only DoH, the value must be 3. By setting network.trr.uri to the URL special Cloudflare servers will be activated. Mozilla has a privacy agreement with this server host that restricts their collection of information about incoming DNS requests. On May 21, 2019, Firefox was updated to include the ability to block scripts that used a computer's CPU to mine cryptocurrency without a user's permission, in Firefox version 67.0. The update also allowed users to block known fingerprinting scripts that track their activity across the web, however it does not resist fingerprinting on its own. On July 2, 2019, Mozilla introduced a mechanism to allow Firefox to automatically trust OS-installed certificates to prevent TLS errors. In October 2019, ZDNet reported Firefox version 68 ESR passed all minimum requirements for mandatory security features during an exam by the Federal Office for Information Security of Germany.. Firefox is a widely localized web browser. The first official release in November 2004 was available in 24 different languages and for 28 locales, including British English, American English, European Spanish, Argentine Spanish, and Chinese in Traditional Chinese characters and Simplified Chinese characters. , currently supported versions 70.0.1 and 68.2.0esr are available in 89 locales .. The desktop version of Firefox is available and supported for Microsoft Windows, macOS and Linux, while Firefox for Android is available for Android .png|Firefox on MeeGo OS . Besides official releases, Mozilla provides development builds of Firefox in distribution channels named, in order of most to least stable, "Beta", "Developer Edition" releases, ESRs are not updated with new features and performance enhancements every six weeks, but rather are updated with only high-risk-reduction or high-impact security fixes or major stability fixes with point releases, until the end of the ESR cycle.. Firefox source code is free software, with most of it being released under the Mozilla Public License .. The name "Mozilla Firefox" is a registered trademark; along with the official Firefox logo, it may only be used under certain terms and conditions. Anyone may redistribute the official binaries in unmodified form and use the Firefox name and branding for such distribution, but restrictions are placed on distributions which modify the underlying source code. The name "Firefox" derives from a nickname of the red panda. Mozilla has placed the Firefox logo files under open-source licenses, but its trademark guidelines do not allow displaying altered or similar logos in contexts where trademark law applies. There has been some controversy over the Mozilla Foundation's intentions in stopping certain open source distributions from using the "Firefox" trademark. Open source browsers "enable greater choice and innovation in the market rather than aiming for mass-market domination." Mozilla Foundation Chairperson Mitchell Baker explained in an interview in 2007 that distributions could freely use the Firefox trademark if they did not modify source-code, and that the Mozilla Foundation's only concern was with users getting a consistent experience when they used "Firefox". To allow distributions of the code without using the official branding, the Firefox build system contains a "branding switch". This switch, often used for alphas is now being referred to in some publicity material as "Firefox Browser". File:Mozilla Phoenix logo vector.svg|Logo of "Phoenix" and "Firebird" before being renamed as Firefox File:Mozilla Firefox 3.5 logo 256.png|Firefox 3.5–22, fromJune 30, 2009 toJune 25, 2013 File:Mozilla Firefox logo 2013.svg|Firefox 23–56, from August 6, 2013 to September 28, 2017 File:Firefox Logo, 2017.svg|Firefox 57-69, from November 14, 2017 to September 3, 2019 File:Firefox logo, 2019.svg|Firefox 70 and later, since October 22, 2019 File:Mozilla Nightly icon 2011.png|The 2011 Nightly logo, used to represent nightly builds of pre-alpha versions File:Mozilla Firefox Nightly logo 2013.png|The 2013 Nightly logo File:Firefox Nightly Logo, 2017.svg|The 2017 Nightly logo File:Firefox Nightly logo, 2019.svg|The 2019 Nightly logo File:Firefox Developer Edition logo.png|The 2015 Developer Edition logo File:Firefox Developer Edition Logo, 2017.svg|The 2017 Developer Edition logo File:Firefox Developer Edition logo,2019.svg|The 2019 Developer Edition logo File:Mozilla Aurora icon.png|The 2011 Aurora logo, used to represent an alpha release File:Mozilla Firefox Aurora logo 2013.png|The 2013 Aurora logo File:Deer park globe.svg|Blue globe artwork, distributed with the source code, and is explicitly not protected as a trademark . Firefox was adopted rapidly, with 100 million downloads in its first year of availability. This was followed by a series of aggressive marketing campaigns starting in 2004 with a series of events Blake Ross and Asa Dotzler called "marketing weeks". Firefox continued to heavily market itself by releasing a marketing portal dubbed "Spread Firefox" . Three months later, in May 2011, Mozilla officially closed Spread Firefox. Mozilla wrote that "there are currently plans to create a new iteration of this website at a later date." In celebration of the third anniversary of the founding of the Mozilla Foundation, the "World Firefox Day" campaign was established on July 15, 2006, and ran until September 15, 2006. Participants registered themselves and a friend on the website for nomination to have their names displayed on the Firefox Friends Wall, a digital wall that will be displayed at the headquarters of the Mozilla Foundation. The Firefox community has also engaged in the promotion of their web browser. In 2006, some of Firefox's contributors from Oregon State University made a crop circle of the Firefox logo in an oat field near Amity, Oregon, near the intersection of Lafayette Highway and Walnut Hill Road. After Firefox reached 500 million downloads on February 21, 2008, the Firefox community celebrated by visiting Freerice to earn 500 million grains of rice. Other initiatives included Live Chat, a service Mozilla launched in 2007 that allowed users to seek technical support from volunteers. The service was later retired. To promote the launch of Firefox Quantum in November 2017, Mozilla partnered with Reggie Watts to produce a series of TV ads and social media content.. In December 2005, Internet Week ran an article in which many readers reported high memory usage in Firefox 1.5. Mozilla developers said that the higher memory use of Firefox 1.5 was at least partially due to the new fast backwards-and-forwards , which performed relatively poorly. On Octane, Firefox came ahead of IE and Safari, but again slightly behind the rest, including Vivaldi and Microsoft Edge. Edge took overall first place on the Jetstream and Octane benchmarks. As of the adoption of Firefox 57 and Mozilla's Quantum project entering production browsers in November 2017, Firefox was tested to be faster than Chrome in independent JavaScript tests, and demonstrated to use less memory with many browser tabs opened. TechRadar rated it as the fastest web browser in a May 2019 report.. Downloads have continued at an increasing rate since Firefox 1.0 was released on November 9, 2004, and Firefox had already been downloaded over one billion times. This number does not include downloads using software updates or those from third-party websites. They do not represent a user count, as one download may be installed on many machines, one person may download the software multiple times, or the software may be obtained from a third-party. In July 2010, IBM asked all employees and its successor Edge were more popular than Firefox combined, but with the decline of IE's share they are no longer and Edge more popular than IE, which used to dominate. According to the Firefox Public Data report by Mozilla, active monthly count of Desktop clients has decreased from around 310 million in 2017 to 260 million in 2019. Firefox has had much success in some countries and continues to have , the most popular browser on traditional PCs in e.g. Eritrea and Cuba, with 78.15% and 68.19% of the market share, respectively.