Peter Paul Montgomery Buttigieg for children of illegal immigrants. Buttigieg also supports reforms that would end gerrymandering, overturn the Citizens United v. FEC decision, and abolish the Electoral College.. Buttigieg was born in South Bend, Indiana, the only child of Joseph and Jennifer Anne Buttigieg . Buttigieg was awarded the Joint Service Commendation Medal and the Joint Meritorious Unit Award and was honorably discharged from the U.S. Navy Reserve in 2017. Buttigieg was the Democratic nominee for state treasurer of Indiana in . He received 37.5% of the vote, losing to Republican incumbent Richard Mourdock..  Buttigieg was elected mayor of South Bend in the November 2011 election, with 10,991 of the 14,883 votes cast and made possible by a $1 million three-year grant from Bloomberg Philanthropies Mayors Challenge. Buttigieg secured $180,000 to commission a review of South Bend's police department policies and practices to be conducted by Chicago-based consulting firm 21CP Solutions. In his budget proposal for the 2020 fiscal year, Buttigieg proposed the creation of a new Division of Public Safety. This quickly received opposition from the Fraternal Order of Police and others, who likened it to his failed attempt two years earlier to create the position of Director of Public Safety, despite Buttigieg's assertions that this effort was different. In late October 2019, it was announced that the South Bend Mayor's Office would have a slightly different new division, the Division of Community Initiatives. This is budgeted to be launched in 2020, when Buttigieg's successor will take office. Buttigieg supported this department's creation. In February 2019, Buttigieg endorsed James Mueller in the 2019 South Bend mayoral election. Mueller was a high-school classmate of Buttigieg's and served as his mayoral chief of staff, and later as executive director of the South Bend Department of Community Investment. Mueller's campaign promised to continue the progress that had been made under Buttigieg's mayoralty. Buttigieg appeared in campaign ads for Mueller and donated to Mueller's campaign. Mueller won the May 7 Democratic primary with 37% of the vote in a crowded field. In the November 5 general election, Mueller defeated Republican nominee Sean M. Haas.. In January 2017, Buttigieg announced his candidacy for chair of the Democratic National Committee in its 2017 chairmanship election. He built a national profile as an emerging dark horse in the race for the chairmanship with the backing of former DNC chairman Howard Dean, former Maryland governor Martin O'Malley, Indiana senator Joe Donnelly, and North Dakota senator Heidi Heitkamp. Buttigieg "campaigned on the idea that the aging Democratic Party needed to empower its millennial members". Former U.S. Secretary of Labor Tom Perez and U.S. Representative Keith Ellison quickly emerged as the favored candidates of a majority of DNC members. Buttigieg withdrew from the race on the day of the election without endorsing a candidate, and Perez was elected chair after two rounds of voting.. On January 23, 2019, Buttigieg announced that he was forming an exploratory committee to run for President of the United States in the upcoming 2020 election. Buttigieg is seeking the Democratic nomination. If elected, he would be the youngest and the first openly gay American president. Buttigieg officially launched his campaign on April 14, 2019, in South Bend. Buttigieg describes himself as a progressive and a supporter of democratic capitalism. He favors universal healthcare with eventual retention of private insurance; dialogue and cooperation between the Democratic Party and organized labor; universal background checks for firearms purchases; and environmentalist policies to combat pollution and climate change, which Buttigieg views as a national security threat. He supports subsidizing solar panels and the Paris Agreement; after President Trump withdrew the United States from the Paris Agreement, Buttigieg was one of many U.S. mayors to sign the Mayors National Climate Action Agenda, pledging that his city would continue to adhere to the agreement. Buttigieg is a supporter of the Equality Act, a bill extending federal non-discrimination protection to LGBT people. He opposes the Trump Administration's ban on transgender personnel in the military. Buttigieg favors the DACA program and federal legislation that would create a pathway to citizenship for youths who had been brought into the country illegally as children. He supports abortion rights. Buttigieg identifies regulatory capture as a significant problem in American society..  Buttigieg is pro-choice and supports repealing the Hyde Amendment, which blocks federal funding for abortion services in all but the most extreme circumstances. In 2018, as mayor, Buttigieg vetoed a South Bend Common Council rezoning decision that would have allowed a pro-life Women's Care Center to open next door to the abortion clinic, Whole Women's Health Alliance. The Women's Care Center eventually found an alternative location in South Bend. Even though the South Bend Common Council supported the rezoning exception, Buttigieg said, "I don't think it would be responsible to situate two groups literally right next to each other ... that have diametrically opposed views on the most divisive social issue of our time." He also expressed concern that such close proximity would conduce to the harassment of each side by the other. Buttigieg demurred from taking a strong stance on abortion at the time, saying, "Issues on the morality or the legality of abortion are dramatically beyond my pay grade as mayor." In May 2019, after the Alabama Legislature outlawed virtually all abortion services in the state by passing the Human Life Protection Act, Buttigieg said that it was "ignoring science, criminalizing abortion, and punishing women". Buttigieg released a plan to combat climate change consisting of three parts: building a clean economy through the creation of clean energy jobs; improving resilience by investing in disaster relief and prevention; and heightening the United States' role in the international fight against climate change. His proposal sets benchmarks of doubling clean electricity in the U.S. by 2025, zero emissions in electricity generation by 2035, net-zero emissions from industrial vehicles by 2040, and net-zero emissions by 2050. Buttigieg has said that, if elected, he will restore the United States' commitment to the Paris Climate Agreement and double its pledge to the Green Climate Fund. In June 2017, he was one of 407 U.S. mayors who signed a pact to adhere to the agreement after President Trump announced his decision to withdraw from it. Buttigieg also supports the Green New Deal proposed by House Democrats. Buttigieg favors solar panel subsidies and a carbon tax and dividend policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Buttigieg supports eliminating the death penalty. He has also called for restoring voting rights to former felons and moving toward reversing criminal sentences for minor drug-related offenses. He supports the "safe, regulated, and legal sale of marijuana". In 2019, Buttigieg said he was "troubled" by President Obama's decision to commute the sentence of Chelsea Manning, the Iraq War whistleblower, days before leaving office in 2017. Buttigieg also gave a mixed evaluation of Edward Snowden's disclosure of classified information, saying, "we've learned things about abuses and that one way or another that needed to come out" but that "the way for that to come out is through Congressional oversight, not through a breach of classified information". On August 23, 2019, Buttigieg released a plan to decriminalize all drug possession; decriminalization would make the possession of all drugs legal, with the sale of them remaining illegal. The plan states that this, in conjunction with diversionary programs to treat instead of incarcerate the addicted, should "decrease the number of people incarcerated due to mental illness or substance use by 75% in the first term". Buttigieg has frequently pointed to automation as the chief cause of the great loss of manufacturing jobs nationwide. He has spoken of the need to work with labor unions. As a self-proclaimed democratic capitalist, Buttigieg rejects crony capitalism and supports a constitutional amendment to protect democracy from the undue and corrupting influence of money in politics. He is receptive to the possibility of antitrust actions against large technology companies but more focused on privacy and data security concerns. In 2010, Buttigieg praised the passage of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. While running for Indiana State Treasurer in 2010, Buttigieg described his record as fiscally conservative. While running for Indiana State Treasurer, Buttigieg supported the Community Reinvestment Act, proposing policies that would help Indiana enforce it by having the state deposit its money only in banks that complied with its obligations. Buttigieg favors the abolition of the Electoral College. He has also said that he supports reinstating convicted felons' right to vote once they are released, but not before. Buttigieg has said that he believes the post-9/11 invasion of Afghanistan was justified but now supports withdrawing American troops from the region with a maintained intelligence presence. Buttigieg is a committed supporter of Israel, breaking from the increasing trend in the Democratic Party to support Palestinians and the Palestinian cause, but disapproves of Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu's zeal for building Jewish settlements in the Israeli-occupied West Bank. In January 2019, following Juan Guaidó's self-declaration as interim president of Venezuela, Buttigieg told HuffPost that as a supporter of free and fair elections, he is amenable to potential sanctions but not a military intervention. On June 11, 2019, Buttigieg said: "We will remain open to working with a regime like the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for the benefit of the American people. But we can no longer sell out our deepest values for the sake of fossil fuel access and lucrative business deals." Buttigieg supports ending U.S. involvement in the Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen. Buttigieg has condemned China's treatment of its ethnic Uyghur people. He criticized Trump's decision to withdraw U.S. troops from Syria, which critics say gave Turkey the green light to launch its military offensive against Syrian Kurds. Buttigieg opposed Republican efforts to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. At the start of his campaign, Buttigieg advocated a single-payer healthcare system. He later clarified that he would not immediately jump to single-payer from the current system, preferring to implement an all-payer rate setting as a glide path. By November 2019, Buttigieg was promoting "Medicare for All Who Want It", a plan that would implement a public option for health insurance while allowing private insurers to remain in business. In August 2019, Buttigieg released a $300 billion plan to expand mental health care services and fight addiction. Buttigieg supports Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals and has drawn attention to the Trump administration's aggressive deportation policies. He defended a resident of Granger, Indiana, who was deported after living in the U.S. for 17 years despite regularly checking in with ICE and applying for a green card. Buttigieg has said that Trump has been reckless in sending American troops to the southern border and that it is a measure of last resort. Buttigieg has said that he believes the Supreme Court needs structural reform, emphasizing depoliticization and suggesting that the court be expanded to 15 members, five of whom can only be seated by unanimous consensus of the other ten. Buttigieg supports the impeachment inquiry into Donald Trump. In May 2019, Buttigieg warned that President Donald Trump and his administration were using white identity politics, which he identified as the most divisive form of identity politics. In July 2019, he shared his "Douglass Plan", named after abolitionist Frederick Douglass, to address systemic racism in America. Announcing it at a Chicago meeting of Jesse Jackson's Rainbow/PUSH civil rights organization, Buttigieg compared the plan's scope to that of the U.S.'s Marshall Plan, which invested funds in war-torn Europe after World War II, and said it would address "opportunity for minority businesses, strengthening voting rights, and reforming the criminal justice system". The initiative allocates $10 billion to African-American entrepreneurship over five years, grants $25 billion to historically black colleges, legalizes marijuana, expunges records of drug convictions, halves the federal prison population, and passes a federal New Voting Rights Act designed to increase voting access. Buttigieg favors amending civil rights legislation with the Federal Equality Act so that LGBT Americans receive federal non-discrimination protections. He opposes the ban on transgender military participation enacted under Trump. He also supports expanding opportunities for national service and has said that he is open to making a yearlong term of national service voluntary for those turning 18 years old. "One thing we could do ... would be to make it, if not legally obligatory, then certainly a social norm that anybody after they're 18 years old spends a year in national service", he said. In July 2019 Buttigieg announced a plan to increase participation in national service organizations like AmeriCorps and the Peace Corps, as well as creating new ones dedicated to "fighting climate change, treating mental health and addiction, and providing caregiving for older people". The initiative prioritizes volunteering in predominantly minority communities and rural areas by tripling programs to 250,000 people at first, then expanding to one million by 2026. Buttigieg opposes free college tuition because he believes that it unfairly subsidizes higher-income families at the expense of lower-income people who do not attend college. This position distinguishes him from other progressives who support free college tuition for all. Buttigieg supports initiatives to make college more affordable. Buttigieg is an advocate for the statehood of Washington, D.C. He has also said that he would support Puerto Rican statehood "if they want it". In July 2019, Buttigieg released a plan to strengthen union bargaining power, to raise the minimum wage to $15, and to offer national paid family leave.. Buttigieg is a Christian, and he has said his faith has had a strong influence in his life. His parents baptized him in a Catholic church as an infant and he attended Catholic schools. While at the University of Oxford, Buttigieg began to attend Christ Church Cathedral and said he felt "more-or-less Anglican" by the time he returned to South Bend. St.&nbsp;Augustine, James Martin, and Garry Wills are among his religious influences. A member of the Episcopal Church, Buttigieg is a congregant at the Cathedral of St.&nbsp;James in downtown South Bend. Buttigieg taught himself to speak a little bit of Norwegian and has some knowledge of Spanish, Italian, Maltese, Arabic, Dari Persian, and French in addition to his native English, though his level of fluency in those languages is unclear. His campaign has not commented on his language abilities, but he has been recorded speaking foreign languages on various occasions, including interviews on Univision on May 8, 2019 and Telemundo on May 20, 2019. Buttigieg plays guitar and piano, and in 2013 performed with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra as a guest piano soloist with Ben Folds. Buttigieg was a 2014 Aspen Institute Rodel Fellow. He was a recipient of the John&nbsp;F. Kennedy New Frontier Fenn Award in 2015. In a June 2015 piece in the South Bend Tribune, Buttigieg came out as gay. By coming out, Buttigieg became Indiana's first openly gay elected executive. He was the first elected official in Indiana to come out while in office, and the highest elected official in Indiana to come out. Buttigieg is also the first openly gay Democratic presidential candidate, and the second overall, after Republican Fred Karger, who ran in 2012. In December 2017, Buttigieg announced his engagement to Chasten Glezman, a junior high school teacher. They had been dating since August 2015 after meeting on the dating app Hinge. They were married on June 16, 2018, in a private ceremony at the Cathedral of St.&nbsp;James. As of April 2019 Chasten uses his husband's surname, Buttigieg. In June 2019, to mark the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots, a watershed moment in the LGBTQ rights movement, Queerty named him one of its "Pride50" people identified as "trailblazing individuals who actively ensure society remains moving towards equality, acceptance and dignity for all queer people".