'Once Upon a Time in Hollywood' is a 2019 comedy-drama film written and directed by Quentin Tarantino. Produced by Columbia Pictures, Bona Film Group, Heyday Films, and Visiona Romantica and distributed by , it is a co-production between the United States and the United Kingdom. It features a large ensemble cast led by Leonardo DiCaprio, Brad Pitt, Margot Robbie, Emile Hirsch, Margaret Qualley, Timothy Olyphant, Austin Butler, Dakota Fanning, Bruce Dern, and Al Pacino. Set in 1969 Los Angeles, the film follows an actor and his stunt double, as they navigate the changing film industry, and features "multiple storylines in a modern fairy tale tribute to the final moments of Hollywood's golden age". Announced in July 2017, it is the first Tarantino film to not involve Bob and Harvey Weinstein, as Tarantino ended his partnership with them following the sexual abuse allegations against the latter. After a bidding war, the film was distributed by Sony Pictures, which met Tarantino's demands including final cut privilege. Pitt, DiCaprio, Robbie, Zoë Bell, Kurt Russell, and others joined the cast between January and June 2018. Principal photography lasted from June through November around Los Angeles. It is the last film to feature Luke Perry, who died in March 2019. The film premiered at the Cannes Film Festival on May 21, 2019, and was theatrically released in the United States on July 26 and in the United Kingdom on August 14. It has grossed $372 million worldwide, and has received generally positive reviews from critics , although reactions regarding the end of the film have been mixed.. In February 1969, Hollywood actor Rick Dalton, star of 1950s Western television series Bounty Law, fears his career is over. Casting agent Marvin Schwarzs advises him to make Spaghetti Westerns, which Dalton feels are beneath him. Dalton's friend and stunt double, Cliff Booth – a war veteran who lives in a trailer with his pit bull, Brandy – drives Dalton around because Dalton's alcoholism has resulted in multiple DUIs. Booth struggles to find work due to rumors that he murdered his wife. Actress Sharon Tate and her husband, director Roman Polanski, have moved next door to Dalton, who dreams of befriending them to restore his status. That night, Tate and Polanski attend a celebrity-filled party at the Playboy Mansion. The next day, Booth repairs Dalton's TV antenna. He reminisces about a sparring contest he had with Bruce Lee on the set of The Green Hornet, resulting in Booth being fired. Charles Manson stops by the Polanski residence looking for Terry Melcher, who used to live there, but is turned away by Jay Sebring. While driving Dalton's car, Booth picks up a hitchhiker, "Pussycat". He drops her off at Spahn Ranch, where Booth once filmed Bounty Law. He notices the hippies living there . Suspecting they are taking advantage of the owner, George Spahn, Booth insists on checking on him despite "Squeaky"'s objections. Spahn dismisses Booth's fears. Booth discovers that "Clem" slashed a tire on Dalton's car; Booth beats him and forces him to change it. "Tex" is asked to deal with the situation but arrives as Booth drives away. Tate goes for a walk and stops at a movie theater to watch herself in The Wrecking Crew. Dalton plays a villain on the pilot of Lancer, and strikes up a conversation with his eight-year-old co-star, Trudi Fraser. Dalton struggles with his dialogue. After having a breakdown in his trailer, Dalton delivers a performance that impresses Fraser and the director, Sam Wanamaker, bolstering Dalton's confidence. After watching Dalton's guest performance on an episode of The F.B.I., Schwarzs books him as the lead of Sergio Corbucci's next Western, Nebraska Jim. Dalton takes Booth with him for a stint in Italy, during which he appears in two additional Westerns and a Eurospy comedy, and marries Italian starlet Francesca Capucci. Returning home, Dalton informs Booth he can no longer afford his services. They go out for drinks, then return to Dalton's home. Booth smokes an acid-laced cigarette and takes Brandy for a walk. "Tex", "Sadie", "Flower Child", and "Katie" park outside in preparation to murder everyone in Tate's house. Dalton hears the car and orders them to leave. Changing their plans, they decide to kill Dalton after "Sadie" reasons Hollywood "taught them to murder". "Flower Child" drives off, deserting the other three. They break into Dalton's house and confront Capucci and Booth, who recognizes them from Spahn Ranch. Booth orders Brandy to attack, and together they kill "Katie" and "Tex" and severely injure "Sadie". She stumbles outside, alarming Dalton, who was listening to music on headphones, oblivious to the mayhem. He retrieves a flamethrower and incinerates her. Booth is hospitalized, Sebring engages Dalton in conversation, and Tate invites Dalton over for drinks..  Rick Dalton is an actor who starred in the television Western series Bounty Law, based on Wanted Dead or Alive, which starred Steve McQueen. Dalton's relationship with Cliff Booth is based on Burt Reynolds' and his longtime stunt double Hal Needham. Dalton was inspired by actors whose careers began in Classical Hollywood, but faltered in the 1960s, like Ty Hardin who went from starring in a successful TV Western to making Spaghetti Westerns. Also by Ralph Meeker. Though not mentioned in the film, Dalton suffers from undiagnosed bipolar disorder, inspired by Pete Duel. Cliff Booth, Dalton's stunt double and best friend, is a World War II veteran, Green Beret and "one of deadliest guys alive." Quentin Tarantino and Brad Pitt modeled Booth after Tom Laughlin's portrayal of Billy Jack. Booth is inspired by Gary Kent, a stuntman for a film made on Spahn Ranch while the Manson Family lived there, and Gene LeBell, who worked on The Green Hornet after complaints by other stuntmen that Bruce Lee was "kicking the shit out of the stuntmen." Trudi Fraser, the precocious child actor working on Lancer, is inspired by an actual character from that series. Marvin Schwarzs is Dalton's agent. Tarantino wrote the role specifically for Al Pacino. Francesca Capucci, an actress who marries Rick Dalton, is influenced by 1960s Italian starlets Sophia Loren and Claudia Cardinale. Billie Booth is Cliff's wife, whose death echos Natalie Wood's. Some roles, like Zoë Bell's stunt coordinator and Heba Thorisdotter's makeup artist, were portrayed by individuals who performed those jobs for the film. was an actress married to film director Roman Polanski, and is Dalton's neighbor in the film. Margot Robbie read Polanski's autobiography Roman by Polanski, in preparation for the role. Jay Sebring was Tate's friend and ex, and friends with Bruce Lee ... but it felt like it had been made for me... I couldn't resist the temptation to buy it." He says that as soon as he put it on ideas floating in his head came together. The character of "Sundance" was named by Cassidy Hice, the actress who portrays her. She wrote, "I was asked to name my character by Quentin himself"..  Around 2009, Tarantino discovered the centerpiece for the film while filming a movie with an actor that had the same stunt double for 20 years. Even though there was nothing but a small bit for the stuntman to do, Tarantino was asked to use him, and he agreed. The relationship fascinated Tarantino and inspired him to make a film about Hollywood. Tarantino first created Cliff Booth, giving him a massive backstory. Then, the actor Booth was the stunt double for, Rick Dalton. Tarantino decided to make them Sharon Tate's next door neighbors in 1969. The first plot point he developed was the ending, then moved backwards, this being the first time Tarantino had worked this way. He thought of doing an Elmore Leonard-type story, but realized he was confident enough in his characters to let them drive the film and let it be a day in the life of Booth, Dalton, and Tate. He would use sequences from Dalton's films for the action, inspired by Richard Rush's The Stunt Man, which used the scenes from the WWI movie they were making within the film as the action. On July 11, 2017, it was announced that Quentin Tarantino's next film would be about the Manson Family murders. Harvey and Bob Weinstein would be involved, but it was not known whether The Weinstein Company would distribute the film, as Tarantino sought to cast before sending out a package to studios. Tarantino approached Brad Pitt and Jennifer Lawrence to star in the film. It was reported that Margot Robbie was being considered for Sharon Tate. Samuel L. Jackson was in talks for a major role, and Pitt was in talks for the detective investigating the murders. After the Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse allegations, Tarantino cut ties with Weinstein and sought a new distributor, after having worked with Weinstein for his entire career. At this point, Leonardo DiCaprio was revealed to be among a short list of actors Tarantino was considering for the film. A short time later, reports circulated that studios were bidding for the film set in Los Angeles in the late 1960s, that Tom Cruise was in talks for one of the leads, and that David Heyman had joined as a producer, along with Tarantino and Shannon McIntosh. On November 11, 2017, Sony Pictures announced they would distribute the film, beating Warner Bros., Universal Pictures, Paramount Pictures, Annapurna Pictures and Lionsgate. Tarantino's demands included a $95&nbsp;million budget, final cut privilege, "extraordinary creative controls", 25% of first-dollar gross, and the stipulation that the rights revert to him after 10 to 20 years. In January 2018, DiCaprio signed on, taking a pay cut to collaborate with Tarantino again. Al Pacino was being considered for a role. On February 28, 2018, the film was titled Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, with Pitt cast in the role Cruise was also up for. DiCaprio and Pitt were each paid $10&nbsp;million. In March 2018, Robbie, who had expressed interest in working with Tarantino, signed to co-star as Sharon Tate, while Zoë Bell confirmed she would appear. In April 2018, Jessica Lange was in talks to play Mary Alice Schwarzs, but dropped out and Brenda Vaccaro replaced her. In May 2018, Burt Reynolds, Tim Roth, Kurt Russell, and Michael Madsen joined the cast. Timothy Olyphant was also cast. In June 2018, Damian Lewis, Luke Perry, Emile Hirsch, Dakota Fanning, Clifton Collins Jr., Keith Jefferson, Nicholas Hammond, Pacino, and Scoot McNairy joined the cast. Spencer Garrett, James Remar, Brenda Vaccaro, and Mike Moh were announced in July. In August 2018, Damon Herriman as Charles Manson, and Lena Dunham, Austin Butler, Danny Strong, Rumer Willis, Dreama Walker, and Margaret Qualley were cast. When casting the leads, Tarantino invited Pitt, DiCaprio, and Robbie to his house to read the only copy of the full script, to prevent leaks. When Butler auditioned, he did not know which character it was for. Tarantino told him it was for a villain or a hero on Lancer, when in fact it was for "Tex" Watson. To prepare for her audition, Maya Hawke practiced with her father, Ethan Hawke. She said the process was unlike any other except maybe auditioning for drama school, and during it they worked on the scene in many different ways, with different combinations of people. Willis auditioned for two roles, neither of which she got, then was offered the part of Joanna Pettet. Sydney Sweeney said everyone she auditioned with did so for the same character, then were told they could do extra credit. Some did artwork, and she wrote a letter in character. Julia Butters says her sitcom American Housewife was on while Tarantino was writing her character, Trudi Fraser. He looked up and said, "Maybe she can try this." Principal photography began on June 18, 2018, in Los Angeles, California, and wrapped on November 1, 2018. Reynolds died in September 2018 before filming any of his scenes; Bruce Dern was cast as George Spahn in his place. Tarantino's directive was to turn Los Angeles of 2018 into Los Angeles of 1969 without CGI. It required months of collaboration with city planners, business owners, set decorators, and construction crews. While filming at Musso & Frank Grill, the owners brought out the original plates. To film at the Pussycat Theater, production designer Barbara Ling and her team covered the building's LED signage and reattached the theater's iconic logo, rebuilding the letters and neon. Ling said the lettering on every marquee in the film is historically accurate. To restore Larry Edmund's Bookshop, she reproduced the original storefront sign and tracked down period-appropriate merchandise, even recreating book covers. For the Bruin and Fox Village theaters Ling's team restored the theaters, their marquees, and the storefronts around them. Stan's Donuts, across the street from the Bruin got a complete makeover. For Bounty Law, Ling went for a dusty, dirty, early Deadwood look. Ling's team found one of the last great living Italian artists to do two of the film's posters. Other posters used and the mugs, are part of Tarantino's personal collection. Movie poster artist Steven Chorney created the poster for the film, as a reference to The Mod Squad. He also created the posters for Nebraska Jim, Operation Dyn-O-Mite, Uccidimi Subito Ringo Disse il Gringo, Hell-Fire Texas, and Comanche Uprising, which was reprinted for Dalton's home parking spot. Mad Magazine caricaturist Tom Richmond created the covers of MAD and TV Guide featuring Dalton's Jake Cahill. Spahn Ranch was recreated in detail over about a three-month period. The Playboy Mansion scene was shot at the actual mansion. Tarantino told cinematographer Robert Richardson, "I want it to feel retro but I want it to be contemporary." Richardson shot in Kodak 35 millimeter with Panavision cameras and lenses, in order to weave time periods. For Bounty Law they shot in black and white, and brief sequences in Super 8 and 16mm Ektachrome. In the film, Lancer was shot on a retrofitted Western Street backlot at Universal Studios, designed by Ling. Richardson crossed Lancer with Alias Smith and Jones for the retro-future look Tarantino wanted. The way they filmed Lancer was not possible in 1969, but Tarantino wanted his personal touch on it. Richardson said that filming the movie touched him personally, "The film speaks to all of us... We are all fragile beings with a limited time to achieve whatever it is we desire... that at any moment that place will shift... So take stock in life and have the courage to believe in yourself." The exterior of the Van Nuys drive-in scene was filmed at the Paramount Theater since the Van Nuys Theater no longer exists. As the camera rises up over the theater, the shot transitions to a miniature set with toy cars. For some of the driving scenes, Los Angeles freeways were shut down for hours in order to fill them with vintage cars..  'Once Upon a Time in Hollywood' is also the name of the soundtrack. Pitchfork said the music was "a highlight" and an "oft-disquieting mixtape of golden-age rock'n'roll, radio DJ patter, and period-specific commercials." # "Treat Her Right" – Roy Head and the Traits # "Ramblin' Gamblin' Man" – Bob Seger System # "Hush" – Deep Purple # "Hector" – The Village Callers # "Son of a Lovin' Man" – Buchanan Brothers # "Paxton Quigley's Had the Course" – Chad & Jeremy # "Hungry" – Paul Revere & the Raiders # "Good Thing" – Paul Revere & the Raiders # "Choo Choo Train" – The Box Tops # "Jenny Take a Ride" – Mitch Ryder & The Detroit Wheels # "" – Deep Purple # "The Circle Game" – Buffy Sainte-Marie # "Mrs. Robinson" – Simon & Garfunkel # "" – Los Bravos # "Hey Little Girl" – Dee Clark # "Brother Love's Traveling Salvation Show" – Neil Diamond # "Don't Chase Me Around" – Robert Corff # "Mr. Sun, Mr. Moon" .. Once Upon a Time in Hollywood premiered at the Cannes Film Festival on May 21, 2019. It was released theatrically in the United States on July 26, 2019 by under its Columbia Pictures label. The film was originally scheduled for release on August 9 to coincide with the 50th anniversary of the Tate–LaBianca murders. A teaser trailer was released on March 20, 2019, featuring 1960s music by The Mamas & the Papas . The official trailer was released on May 21, 2019 featuring the songs "Good Thing" by Paul Revere & The Raiders, and "Brother Love's Travelling Salvation Show" by Neil Diamond. The studio spent around $110 million marketing the film. An extended cut of the film featuring four additional scenes was released in theaters on October 25, 2019. The film was released on digital and Movies Anywhere on November 22, 2019, and will be released on Blu-ray, 4K Ultra HD, and DVD on December 10. The 4K version will be available as a regular version and collector's edition..  , Once Upon a Time in Hollywood has grossed $140.9 million in the United States and Canada, and $231 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $371.9 million. By some estimates, the film needed to gross around $250 million worldwide in order to break-even, with others estimating it would need to make $400 million in order to turn a profit. In the United States and Canada, the film was projected to gross $30–40 million from 3,659 theaters in its opening weekend, with some projections having it as high as $50 million or as low as $25 million. The week of its release, Fandango reported the film was the highest pre-seller of any Tarantino film. The film made $16.9 million on its first day, including $5.8 million from Thursday night previews at the expense of everyone else". In Little White Lies, Christopher Hooton described it as "occasionally tedious" but "constantly awe-inspiring", noting it did not seem to be a "love letter to Hollywood" but an "obituary for a moment in culture that looks unlikely to ever be resurrected".. The title is a reference to Once Upon a Time in the West and Once Upon a Time in America, both directed by Sergio Leone. Archive footage from many films is included in Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, including C.C. and Company, Lady in Cement, Three in the Attic, and The Wrecking Crew, in which Sharon Tate appears as Freya Carlson. Three scenes were digitally altered, replacing the original actors with Rick Dalton. One from an episode of The F.B.I., entitled "All the Streets Are Silent," in which Dalton appears as a character originally portrayed by Burt Reynolds. Another from Death on the Run, with Dalton's face imposed over Ty Hardin's. The third is from The Great Escape, with Dalton appearing as Virgil Hilts, the role made famous by Steve McQueen. For 14 Fists of McCluskey, a WWII film within the film starring Dalton, footage and music from Hell River is used. Additionally, Martin Abrahams, Brioni Farrell, Victor Freitag, Nancy Kwan, Dean Martin, Hannes Messemer, Gordon Mitchell, Rod Taylor, Burt Ward, and Adam West appear via archive footage and sound. The 1959 Ford Galaxie driven by the Manson Family is a detailed replica of the car used in the Tate/La Bianca murders. Car coordinator Steven Butcher found the actual car but, after a meeting with Tarantino, they decided using it would be "too creepy." Mark Lindsey, lead singer of Paul Revere & the Raiders, whose music is featured in the film, once lived at 10050 Cielo Drive, the address of the Tate murders. On the poster of Dalton's film Red Blood Red Skin, inspired by Land Raiders, he appears with Telly Savalas. The posters for the two films are the same, except with Dalton replacing George Maharis. The movie Voytek Frykowski is watching is Teenage Monster. A scene from Dalton's The 14 Fists of McCluskey, where his character burns Nazis with a flamethrower, is a reference to Quentin Tarantino's Inglourious Basterds. Cliff Booth is a reference to Brad Pitt's character in Inglourious Basterds, Aldo Raine, who takes the cover of a stuntman. When Dalton and Booth get back from Italy they walk by the blue mosaic wall in LAX, the same wall that the title character in Tarantino's Jackie Brown . The final scene features Rick Dalton in a commercial for fictional Red Apple cigarettes, which appear in many Tarantino films.. In a scene, Sharon Tate goes into Larry Edmunds Bookshop and purchases a copy of Tess of the D'Urbervilles. In real life, Tate gave a copy to Roman Polanski shortly before her death. Years later, Polanski directed the film adaptation, Tess, dedicating it to Tate. Dalton mentions he owns his house on advice from "Eddie O'Brien". Tate and Polanski's Yorkie Terrier in the film is named "Dr. Sapirstein", as was Tate's Yorkie in real life, named after the doctor portrayed by Ralph Bellamy in Rosemary's Baby. The carrier she puts the dog in is the same one the real Tate actually owned. The outfit Margot Robbie wears in the Bruin Theater scene is the same one Tate wore in Eye of the Devil. In the film, Tate goes to see The Wrecking Crew at the Bruin Theater. She convinces the theater's employees that she stars in the movie after they fail to recognize her. Tarantino stated the idea came to him from an experience he had. When True Romance was released, he saw it at the same theater, where he eventually convinced its employees that he wrote the script. On the set of Batman, for a crossover episode with The Green Hornet, a fight was scripted with Kato losing to Robin , Sebring, Wojciech Frykowski, and Abigail Folger. In the film, they go to Tate's house to commit the murders but instead end up breaking into Dalton's house after he interrupts them. Linda Kasabian went along that night as she was the only Family member with a valid driver's license, though she did not murder anyone and stayed outside the whole time. In the film, she also goes along but does not participate. Watson told his victims, "I'm the Devil, and I came to do the Devil's business." In the film, he says it to Cliff Booth. In the film, Atkins convinces the others to seek revenge by killing Rick Dalton, star of a TV western. Since TV taught them to kill, it is fitting they kill the guy from TV, and "My idea is to kill the people who taught us to kill!" In real life, Manson Family member Nancy Pitman said: "We are what you have made us. We were brought up on your TV. We were brought up watching Gunsmoke and Have Gun Will Travel." Sandra Good said: "You want to talk about devils and demonic and immorals and evil, go to Hollywood. We don't touch the evil of that world. We don't even skim it." The next night, the same four, along with Leslie Van Houten, Manson, and Steve Grogan, drove to Leno and Rosemary LaBianca's house, murdering the couple. Afterwards, Manson directed Kasabian to drive to an apartment complex to commit more murders. Once there, Manson left in the car alone, leaving the others to hitchhike back to Spahn Ranch. In the film, it is Kasabian who drives off, deserting others. Watson says they can hitchhike back. Grogan was convicted of the murder of stuntman Donald "Shorty" Shea on Spahn Ranch, who he repeatedly beat with a lead pipe. In the film, Grogan is instead beat by a stuntman, Booth. Charles Manson once approached Steve McQueen with a script he wrote, to get him to produce it. When McQueen turned him down, an altercation happened, in which McQueen broke Manson's nose. On the night of the Tate murders, Jay Sebring invited McQueen over to Tate's house; however, his date wanted to stay in. After the murders, it was reported that police found a Manson Family hit list with McQueen's name. Bobby Beausoleil was an actor and porn star. He appeared in the documentary film Mondo Hollywood, also featuring Sebring. Catherine Share met Beausoleil on the set of the softcore porn film Ramrodder. Beausoleil introduced Share to Manson. Atkins met Manson in San Francisco, where she had worked as an actress, portraying a vampire on Anton LaVey's Witches Sabbath Club Show. LaVey appeared with Beausoleil in Lucifer Rising, and claimed to have been a consultant on and appeared as the Devil in Polanski's Rosemary's Baby..  The depiction of Bruce Lee drew criticism. Fans and contemporaries of Lee took issue with his portrayal. Lee's daughter, Shannon, stated: ", just existing...I wanted you to see Sharon a lot." Charles Manson was convicted of the murders of Tate and four others, despite not being present, due mostly to a theory stating he was trying to instigate an apocalyptic race war, in the end leaving only black Muslims and the Manson Family. The black Muslims would eventually look to Manson to lead them. According to some, Manson referred to the race war as Helter Skelter, getting the name from the song of the same name. Musician and filmmaker Boots Riley criticized the film for not portraying Helter Skelter or depicting the Family as white supremacists. However, according to members of the Family, the murders were not committed to start Helter Skelter but as copycat murders of Gary Hinman, to convince police his killer was still at large. Bobby Beausoleil was in jail, charged with the murder. The Family was attempting to get him released. According to Jay Sebring's protege and business partner Jim Markham, the murders were about a drug deal gone bad, not a race war. He believes Manson was at Tate's house the day before the murders to sell drugs to Sebring and Voytek Frykowski, which resulted in the two beating Manson up. In his interview with Truman Capote, Beausoleil said, "They burned people on dope deals. Sharon Tate and that gang."