The 2020 Democratic Party presidential debates have taken place among candidates in the campaign for the Democratic Party's nomination for the president of the United States in the 2020 presidential election. Many forums, in which candidates do not respond directly to each other, have also taken place.. In December 2018, the Democratic National Committee , the DNC has decided such debates, at the earliest, will be held in 2020. The DNC also announced that it would not partner with Fox News as a media sponsor for any debates. Fox News had last held a Democratic debate in 2003. All media sponsors selected to host a debate will as a new rule be required to appoint at least one female moderator for each debate, to ensure there will not be a gender skewed treatment of the candidates and debate topics. The following is a table of participating candidates in each debate:. ===First debates have suspended their campaigns between the fifth and sixth Democratic debates. A memo released by the DNC on October 25 indicated that the qualification period for the December debate started on October 16, and will end on December 12. To qualify in terms of polling, candidates must reach four percent or more in four polls approved by the DNC. Alternatively, reaching six percent or more in two DNC-approved polls conducted in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada, or South Carolina will also be accepted as meeting the polling threshold. To qualify in terms of donors, candidates must receive donations from 200,000 unique donors with 800 unique donors in 20 different states, territories or the District of Columbia. A monthly debate schedule will continue through January 2020. Starting in February, they will occur more frequently and continue until April 2020..  On April 22, 2019, Jay Inslee proposed that the DNC dedicate one of its presidential debates to climate change, giving candidates a chance to elaborate in full detail on how they intend to implement climate action and achieve the goals presented by the Green New Deal later announced that he had organized an alternative event called the Collegiate Bipartisan Presidential Forum, scheduled October 26–27, 2019, which Harris announced she would attend. In the fifth debate, Andrew Yang did not received his first question until 32 minutes into the debate and spoke for considerably less time than all the other invited candidates. Yang and his supporters criticized the network for what they saw as an undemocratic process, prompting #MSNBCfearsYang to trend on Twitter the following day. MSNBC asked Yang to join an undisclosed program the weekend of November 24, but Yang said he would not appear until the network "apologizes on-air" and "discusses and includes polling". In the following hours, #BoycottMSNBC trended on Twitter.