'Titans' is an American web television series created by Akiva Goldsman, Geoff Johns, and Greg Berlanti for DC Universe. Based on the DC Comics team Teen Titans, the series depicts a group of young heroes who join forces in their fight against evil. Featured as members of the eponymous Titans are Dick Grayson . A live-action series based on the Teen Titans entered development in September 2014 for the cable channel TNT, with Goldsman and Marc Haimes writing the pilot. The pilot had been ordered by December 2014, but never came to fruition, with TNT announcing in January 2016 it would no longer be moving forward with the project. In April 2017, it was announced that the series was being redeveloped for DC Universe as its first original scripted program with Goldsman, Johns, and Berlanti attached. Thwaites was cast as Grayson in September 2017, and other series regulars were cast between August and October 2017. Titans premiered on October 12, 2018, and its first season comprised eleven episodes. A thirteen-episode second season premiered on September 6, 2019, and a third season is scheduled to premiere in 2020. Characters introduced in Titans later reappeared in the DC Universe series Doom Patrol, although Doom Patrol is set in a separate continuity.. Titans follows the young superheroes of the eponymous team as they combat evil and other perils. Disbanded when the story begins, the series sees the team return when the original and new members reform the Titans. The Titans fight crime throughout various locations, with their base of operations in San Francisco. The first members of the team to appear in the series are Batman's former vigilante partner Dick Grayson, extraterrestrial Kory Anders, empath Rachel Roth, and shapeshifter Garfield "Gar" Logan. Dick is later revealed as one of the original Titans, alongside half-Amazon Donna Troy and crime-fighting duo Dawn Granger and Hank Hall. After the Titans reform, the team is joined by Batman's new partner Jason Todd, assassin Rose Wilson, and genetic clone Conner. In the first season, Rachel comes to Dick for protection from dangerous forces pursuing her, which leads to them meeting and teaming up with Kory and Gar. The heroes eventually learn that Rachel is being targeted by her demon father Trigon, who seeks to enslave the world. The season also depicts Dick's efforts to distance himself from his mentor and his Robin persona, while Kory struggles with a bout of amnesia that leaves her unaware of her true identity. The second season focuses on the official reformation of the Titans as Dick leads a new team composed of Rachel, Gar, and Jason. The Titans' return, however, leads to the reemergence of feared assassin Deathstroke, whose prior conflict with the original team caused their disbanding. As Deathstroke attempts to eliminate the heroes, the original Titans are forced to face him again, while other threats emerge from the malevolent Cadmus Laboratories and Kory's sister Blackfire.. * Brenton Thwaites as Richard "Dick" Grayson / Robin / Nightwing: The leader of the Titans and former vigilante sidekick of Batman, seeking to move past his mentor and his Robin persona. A member of the original team, he reforms the Titans while giving up being Robin. Viewing his character as a "reluctant leader", Thwaites said that Dick is "trying to figure out who he is at the same time he's trying to keep the crew protected and safe." Tomaso Sanelli plays the young Dick Grayson. Anna Diop as Princess Koriand'r / Kory Anders / Starfire: An extraterrestrial princess from the planet Tamaran who has the ability to absorb, generate and redirect ultraviolet energy and heat from her hands. Sent to Earth to assassinate Rachel, a bout of amnesia causes Kory to forget her mission and sends her on a journey to discover who she really is. Diop commented that the character has a "really innocent, naïve, pure, fun, curious thing about her", which she sought to bring to her portrayal, and enjoyed playing an alien because of her immigration from Senegal to the United States at an early age. Teagan Croft as Rachel Roth: A telekinetic and empath born to a demon father and human mother. At first understanding little of her lineage and abilities, Rachel's powers lead her to Dick and subsequently becoming a member of the new Titans. Croft noted Rachel's relationship with Dick is "more of a father-daughter relationship" since they both "share the same feeling of abandonment." Ryan Potter as Garfield "Gar" Logan: A shapeshifter who developed the power to transform into animals from a drug that cured him of a lethal disease. Gar previously lived with the Doom Patrol before joining Dick's new Titans team. A fan of the character since he watched the animated Teen Titans series, Potter described Gar as bringing "a warmth to the show" through "humor and lighthearted moments". Curran Walters as Jason Todd / Robin : The mother of Jericho and Deathstroke's ex-wife. Lindsey Gort as Amy Rohrbach: A Detroit police detective partnered with Dick Grayson. Jarreth Merz as the Acolyte: A mysterious man hunting Rachel. Liza Colón-Zayas as Jessica Perez: A detective in the Detroit Police Department. Sherilyn Fenn as Melissa Roth: Rachel's adoptive mother. Meagen Fay as Sister Catherine: The head of a convent that Rachel resided in as a child. Cara Ricketts as Becky Bond: A social worker who managed Bruce's adoption of Dick. April Bowlby as Rita Farr: A member of the Doom Patrol and former actress, whose cellular structure became unstable after being exposed to a toxic gas. Bruno Bichir as Niles Caulder / The Chief: The leader of the Doom Patrol and medical scientist, responsible for saving the lives of its members and giving them residence in his mansion. Hina Adbullah as Shyleen Lao: A young woman who develops the ability to control temperature from being covered in liquid nitrogen. Jake Michaels and Brendan Fraser as Clifford "Cliff" Steele: A member of the Doom Patrol and former stock car racer, whose brain was transplanted into a robotic body after an accident destroyed his own. Michaels physically portrays Cliff while Fraser voices the character and appears as him in photos. Dwain Murphy and Matt Bomer as Larry Trainor: A member of the Doom Patrol and former United States Air Force pilot wrapped entirely in bandages after being exposed to negative energy. Murphy physically portrays Larry while Bomer provides the voice of the character and appears as him in photos. Rachael Crawford as the asylum doctor: The head of Agnews Asylum. Lester Speight as Clayton Williams: A nightclub security guard who was previously a strongman at Haly's Circus and Dick's caretaker before Bruce adopted Dick. Kyle Mac as Nick Zucco: Tony Zucco's vengeful son. Damian Walshe-Howling as Graham Norris: An international poacher and contact of Donna. Elliot Knight as Don Hall / Dove: Hank's original partner and younger half-brother. Jayden Marine plays the young Don. Marina Sirtis as Marie Granger: Dawn's mother. Trevor Hayes as Vincent: A child molester who was Hank's football coach. Jeff Roop as Thomas Carson: The sheriff in Angela's hometown and former high school classmate of hers. Randolf Hobbs and April Brown Chodkowski as John and Mary Grayson: A pair of trapeze artists at Haly's Circus and Dick's parents. Mark Antony Krupa as Konstantin Kovar: A gangster in Vienna, Austria. Zach Smadu as Nuclear Stepdad: A new addition to the Nuclear Family. Richard Zeppieri as Tony Zucco: The gangster responsible for the deaths of Dick's parents. James Scallion as Johnny "John" Grayson: The illusionary son of Dick Grayson and Dawn Granger created by Trigon. Drew Van Acker as Garth / Aqualad: A member of the original Titans from Atlantis possessing hydrokinetic and enhanced physical abilities. Robbie Jones as Faddei: A royal guard from Tamaran and former romantic interest of Kory. Ann Magnuson as Jillian: An Amazon monitoring Donna. Genevieve Angelson as Dr. Eve Watson: A scientist at Cadmus Laboratories who created Conner. Damaris Lewis as Blackfire: A Tamaranean royal and Kory's sister. Evan Jones as Len Armstrong: A prison guard at the Kane County Correctional Facility. Orel De La Mota as Rafi: A Kane County inmate who illegally entered the United States after he fled Corto Maltese. Julian Works as Luis: An undocumented immigrant from Corto Maltese detained in Kane County with Rafi and Santos. Rey Gallegos as Santos: The cellmate of Rafi and Luis and fellow Corto Maltese undocumented immigrant. McKinley Freeman as the psychiatrist: A psychiatrist who encounters Kory in Las Vegas. Currie Graham as Stuart: The creator of Dick's costume, posing as a shoemaker. Peter MacNeill as Lionel Luthor: A retired scientist and Lex Luthor's father. Curtis Lum as Benny: A contact of Dick. Elizabeth Whitmere as Ellis' sister: The sister of Hank and Dawn's farmhand. Drew Scheid as Faux Hawk: A teenager who poses as Hawk. Patrick Garrow as cage announcer: The announcer for Hank's cage fights. Hanneke Talbot as Selinda Flinders / Shimmer: A metahuman criminal with the ability to alter compounds and elements. Sarah Deakins as Martha Kent: Superman's adoptive mother. Olunike Adeliyi as Mati Matisse: A burlesque dancer formerly in a relationship with Wintergreen. Sydney Kuhne as Dani: A runaway fleeing from an abusive household. Ishan Morris as Caleb: Dani's abusive father..  A potential live-action Titans project for cable channel TNT was announced in September 2014. By December 2014, a pilot written by Akiva Goldsman and Marc Haimes had been ordered that would feature Dick Grayson emerging from Batman's shadow to become Nightwing, the leader of a band of heroes including Starfire, Raven, Hawk and Dove, and Oracle. The pilot was set with filming to occur in Toronto in mid-2015. In May 2015, TNT president Kevin Reilly said that they hoped to have the casting locked down by the start of filming and that the show would be "very true" to the comics and "groundbreaking". The series, called Titans and then Blackbirds, was first set to begin shooting in Toronto in mid-2015. Production was then postponed to October. In January 2016, it was announced that TNT would no longer be moving forward with the project. In February 2016, Geoff Johns stated "We more of an adventure piece." He said that tonally, "We wanted to do something different from everything else out there. We wanted to arrive at a tone that wasn't as welcoming as some of the DC shows have been, nor as nihilistic as some of the films have been." Goldsman said that as the series continues, it will ask "How are these broken people going to cohere? Or will they?" Johns noted that Robin's infamous line in the pilot—"Fuck Batman"—was a late addition to the script. Thwaites said of the line, "I thought it was perfect... This is not a show about Batman. It's a show about Dick." In early August 2017, Teagan Croft was cast as Rachel Roth, followed at the end of the month with the casting of Anna Diop as Kory Anders, and Brenton Thwaites as Dick Grayson. Ahead of the series premiere, Diop reduced her presence on social media because of racist attacks towards her casting. The main cast for the first season would be rounded out by Ryan Potter as Gar Logan, who was announced in October 2017. In early September 2017, Alan Ritchson and Minka Kelly were cast in the recurring roles of Hank Hall and Dawn Granger, respectively. By the end of the month, Lindsey Gort had been cast as Amy Rohrbach. In January 2018, Seamus Dever was cast in an undisclosed role that would later be revealed as Trigon, and a month later, members of the Doom Patrol were announced with Bruno Bichir as the Chief, April Bowlby as Rita Farr, Jake Michaels as Cliff Steele, and Matt Bomer as Larry Trainor. Curran Walters and Conor Leslie appear as Jason Todd and Donna Troy, respectively. In August 2018, Elliot Knight was cast as Don Hall. In February 2019, it was announced that Joshua Orpin had been cast as Conner Kent for season two. After the character was teased by Johns, Esai Morales was cast as Deathstroke in March 2019, with Chella Man and Chelsea Zhang announced as his children Jericho and Rose. Iain Glen was cast as Bruce Wayne / Batman on April 11, 2019, marking the character's first physical appearance after being portrayed by stunt doubles in the first-season finale. In June 2019, Natalie Gumede and Drew Van Acker were cast as Mercy Graves and Garth, respectively. In July 2019, Genevieve Angelson was announced as Cadmus Laboratories scientist Dr. Eve Watson. In August 2019, Michael Mosley was revealed to be portraying Dr. Light. The same month, Olunike Adeliyi announced on her Instagram she had joined the cast in an undisclosed role that was later revealed as burlesque dancer Mati Matisse and Hanneke Talbot was revealed to be Shimmer. In September 2019, Demore Barnes was revealed to be portraying Wintergreen. Following the character's appearance in an October 2019 trailer, Anna Diop confirmed on her Instagram that Damaris Lewis would be portraying Blackfire, which was also confirmed by Lewis. Filming for the first season began on November 15, 2017, in Toronto, and Hamilton, Ontario, concluding on June 28, 2018. Filming for the second season began on April 2, 2019, and concluded on October 8, 2019. Production was put on hold due to the July 18 accidental death of special effects coordinator Warren Appleby, but resumed on July 24, 2019..  Titans premiered on October 12, 2018, with new episodes releasing on DC Universe every week. The first season comprised eleven episodes. The first episode of Titans was screened on October 3, 2018, at New York Comic Con. The series became available for streaming via Netflix outside the United States on January 11, 2019. On July 17, 2019 at San Diego Comic-Con, it was announced that the second season was set to premiere on September 6, 2019. The first season of Titans was released digitally on March 21, 2019, and on DVD and Blu-Ray on July 16, 2019..  On Rotten Tomatoes, the first season of Titans holds a "Certified Fresh" approval rating of 80%, with an average rating of 6.66 out of 10 based on 45 reviews. The site's critical consensus states, "Despite a few tonal growing pains, Titans does justice to its source material and truly shines when its titular ensemble finally assembles." Metacritic gave the series' first season a score of 55 out of 100 based on eight critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews". Susana Polo of Polygon praised Titans for "tempering brutal violence and dark subject matter with humor—and by giving its characters plenty of time to stretch, breathe and become attached to one another". Charlie Ridgely of Comicbook.com wrote that Diop "conveys so much wonder and intrigue with her subtle and genuine expressions, but there is a consistent fierceness and tenacity that is always lurking just beneath the surface". Rosie Knight of Nerdist wrote that the "cast is at the core of what makes Titans so enjoyable", while giving praise to the script as well. Forbes contributor Merrill Barr compared the show to The CW's Riverdale, describing it as "a dark and gritty series very far removed from the image the Teen Titans have garnered through a variety of animated outings over the last decades". Barr argued that viewers "that take the tone in stride are going to find themselves in the middle of a series dialed directly into their interests". Rob Salkowitz of Forbes wrote that Titans "somehow managed to deliver on the dark-and-foreboding tone that the early DC movies so conspicuously got wrong." Kevin Yeoman of Screen Rant was critical of the show's excessive violence, writing that Titans "doesn't put forward any new or particularly compelling thoughts about its characters or about superheroes in general". Similarly, Vinne Mancuso of Collider said that "if you're just a fan of some good old-fashioned ultra-violence and moody storytelling, this simply isn't a well-done example of that". The second season holds a 84% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 19 reviews. Its critical consensus reads, "Though Titanss sophomore season suffers from a slight slump at the start, it quickly resets itself, building on the momentum from its first season while laying fascinating framework for where the show could go.". In May 2018, DC Universe announced the live-action series Doom Patrol had received a direct-to-series order as an intended spin-off to Titans. Despite the initial order and sharing characters and actors, however, Doom Patrol occupies a separate continuity. Developed by Jeremy Carver for Warner Bros. Television and Berlanti Productions, the series features the Chief, Cliff Steele, Larry Trainor, Vic Stone, Rita Farr, and Jane as the members of eponymous Doom Patrol. April Bowlby, Matt Bomer, and Brendan Fraser reprise their roles as Rita, the voice of Larry, and the voice of Cliff, while Matthew Zuk and Riley Shanahan replace Dwain Murphy and Jake Michaels for the physical portrayals of Larry and Cliff and Timothy Dalton replaces Bruno Bichir as the Chief. The cast is also joined by Diane Guerrero as Jane, Joivan Wade as Vic, and Alan Tudyk as Mr. Nobody. Production began August 2018 and the series premiered on February 15, 2019.