are role-playing video games developed by Game Freak and published by The Pokémon Company and Nintendo for the Nintendo Switch. They are the first installments in the eighth generation of the Pokémon video game series and the second in the series, after Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, to be released on a home game console. Officially announced in February 2019, Pokémon Sword and Shield were released worldwide on November 15, 2019. Sword and Shield concept planning began immediately following the completion of Pokémon Sun and Moon in 2016, while full production began a year later in late 2017. Like previous installments, they chronicle the journey of a young Pokémon trainer, with these games taking place in the Galar region – based on Great Britain – with the objective being to dethrone the Pokémon League Champion Leon in a tournament the various gym leaders also take part in. Sword and Shield introduce 81 new Pokémon alongside of preexisting Pokémon. Several new features were added such as Dynamaxing and Gigantamaxing, which increase the size of certain Pokémon and the latter changes their forms. The new Wild Area is a large open world area with free camera movement where players can also participate in raids with co-op battling. The two games also reintroduce features previously seen in Sun and Moon and Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee!, such as roaming Pokémon depicted in the overworld. The decision not to make all pre-existing Pokémon available in the games was met with scorn by a segment of the fan community, causing terms such as "Dexit" and "Bring Back National Dex" and calls for a boycott to trend on social media months ahead of the games' release. Nevertheless, Sword and Shield received generally positive reviews from critics. Particular praise was aimed at the creature design, new features and the emphasis on simplicity and streamlined encounters, although some did criticize the game's smaller Pokédex and lack of polish or substance. As of 2019, Sword and Shield have sold more than six million units worldwide. In Japan, the games sold 2 million in their first 3 days, becoming the fastest-selling Switch games in Japan. In the US, the games sold over 2 million in their opening weekend.. Several new features for the games are also firsts for the series, including, cooperative raid encounters, akin to those seen in Pokémon Go; the Wild Area, a fully explorable open world area with free camera movement and dynamic weather which has implications on which Pokémon species appear at a given time; and "Dynamax" and "Gigantamax" forms for Pokémon. The latter two enable Pokémon to temporarily grow to a giant size, with Gigantamax being limited to select Pokémon and feature different forms from the Pokémon's normal appearance. A new mechanic called "Poké Jobs" tasks the player's Pokémon with completing requests, such as assisting in construction or cooking, to gain experience or rare items. In addition, Pokémon native to the game's region are able to be transferred to the games from the Nintendo 3DS app Pokémon Bank, Pokémon Go, and Pokémon: Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! via the Pokémon Home service. Pokémon Gyms make a return after being absent in Sun, Moon, Ultra Sun, and Ultra Moon. As is typical with the series, the two games have version-exclusive features between them, such as available Pokémon and, for the first time, Gym Leaders. Some features from previous entries, such as Mega Evolution and Z-Moves, are absent from the games. A 'Camp' mode is introduced which allows the player to spend some time interacting or playing with their Pokémon and to cook different types of curry which provide bonuses for Pokémon. New customization options for the player character have been added, like outerwear and other accessories. The PC box can be accessed in some areas outside of Pokémon Centers..  Sword and Shield take place in the Galar region, a large, narrow expanse of land and one of many regions in the Pokémon world. Game director Shigeru Ohmori described it as a more modern setting. The region itself is inspired by Great Britain, with its many landmarks resembling places such as the Houses of Parliament and the Cerne Abbas Giant. The Galar region begins with sprawling countryside towns featuring cottages and Victorian architecture to the south. An Industrial Revolution-like city with steampunk-style elements populates the center of the region. Many of the region's towns and cities feature Pokémon Gyms stylized like football stadiums, which show off both Dynamaxing and Gigantamaxing, implemented by the Galar Pokémon League Chairman, Rose. Snow-covered mountains dominate much of the northern areas of the region. Encompassing a large portion of the region is the Wild Area, an open world area with numerous Pokémon species roaming. Weather across the Wild Area changes regularly. Like with Pokémon Sun and Moon, Pokémon previously introduced in older games, such as Weezing, gain regional Galarian Forms with new typings and appearances. Some Pokémon, such as Linoone, even gain regional evolutions. The new starters include the grass-type Grookey, the fire-type Scorbunny, and the water-type Sobble. After picking a starter, the player and their rival receive an endorsement from Champion Leon, and embark to become the new Champion, while also competing with other rivals Bede and Marnie. Along the way players are also tasked with taking care of Marnie's unintentional fanbase, known as Team Yell, a devout group of hooligans determined to stop the player. Similar to many previous entries in the Pokémon franchise, players embark on a journey to become the strongest trainer, with these taking place in the Galar region. The player and their neighbor and rival Hop receive one of three starter Pokémon: Grookey, Scorbunny, or Sobble. Afterwards, the two go exploring a forest called the Slumbering Weald, but are driven off by a powerful Pokémon. During their quest, the player and Hop learn about two Legendary Pokémon who saved Galar from a crisis called the Darkest Day in ancient times, and deduce that they are the Pokémon they encountered in the Slumbering Weald. After beating the 8 Gym Leaders, including one that is the leader of Team Yell, the player makes their way to Wyndon where they compete in the Champion's Cup for the opportunity to fight Champion Leon. After winning the tournament, the player and Leon agree to have their battle the next day and decide to go have dinner together with Hop. They meet at the hotel, but Leon doesn't show up. The player and Hop find him discussing something with Chairman Rose. The next day, before the battle between the player and Leon can commence, Chairman Rose awakens the Pokémon Eternatus in an attempt to harness its power to provide energy to Galar, triggering a second Darkest Day. The player and Hop return to the Slumbering Weald and secure the aid of the legendary Pokémon, Zacian and Zamazenta. They then defeat Chairman Rose and Eternatus, and the player catches Eternatus. Afterwards, the player faces and defeats Leon in a climactic battle and becomes the new Champion of the Galar region. After defeating Leon, the player and Hop return to the Slumbering Weald to return Zacian and Zamazenta's artifacts to their rightful place. However, they are confronted by Sordward and Shielbert, two brothers claiming to be descendants of ancient Galarian kings. The two steal one of the relics and begin forcing innocent Pokémon to Dynamax. The player and Hop work with the Gym Leaders to subdue the Dynamax Pokémon, then track down and confront the brothers. They use Dynamax energy to drive Zamazenta while Hop pursues Zamazenta/Zacian back to the Slumbering Weald and catches them. The two have a final battle, after which Hop decides to become a Pokémon professor.. Development of Pokémon Sword and Shield began immediately following the development of Sun and Moon in 2016. This started with an initial concept phase that lasted for approximately a year before the games moved into full production. Approximately 1,000&nbsp;people from multiple companies were involved in the development, marketing, and public relations associated with Sword and Shield. Approximately 200&nbsp;Game Freak employees worked directly on the games while around 100&nbsp;people from Creatures Inc. worked on 3D modeling, and 100&nbsp;more were involved in debugging and game testing. Junichi Masuda estimated the total number of people involved to be 50% greater than previous Pokémon titles. Masuda also revealed that Nintendo, Game Freak and The Pokémon Company agreed to cut down the National Dex. The idea of strength and striving to be the greatest and strongest was one of the core themes that Game Freak used in designing the games. This is expressed through the Nintendo Switch's status as the most powerful console to run a Pokémon game, with features such as Dynamaxing, and references to British folklore. The games' soundtrack is inspired by British rock music. One track was composed by Toby Fox, better known for being the creator of Undertale. The Switch's ability to render larger Pokémon models and better show size differences between species is the root of the Dynamax feature. The idea of "growing and evolving" is a core concept of the games—for both the trainer and their Pokémon—stemming from producer Junichi Masuda and director Shigeru Ohmori's experience with the franchise. Unlike other core Pokémon games, not all existing Pokémon species appear or are usable in Sword and Shield. Masuda addressed this as a potential issue in a 2018 interview with GameSpot, at which point he said that "it does get complicated when you talk about the details and we're still figuring it out, but we do have plans to find ways to let players use their Pokémon in the next game." However, by 2019, after announcing the decision to limit the number of Pokémon in the games, he explained that they wanted to leverage the Switch's hardware and make the Pokémon more "expressive", but that the sheer number of species, combined with the need to produce assets relating to new features such as the Dynamaxing system, preserve game balance, and maintain a degree of quality, made it infeasible to include all existing Pokémon without extensively lengthening development time. As such, only Pokémon that appear within the Galar region are transferable from previous titles via Pokémon Home. Furthermore, according to the developers, the higher fidelity models had to be built from the ground up as simply transferring existing ones produced for the 3DS platform was not possible. Game Freak later admitted after the release of the games however, that they didn't remake the models and did indeed reuse them from the previous games.. The games were originally teased through a special message by The Pokémon Company president Tsunekazu Ishihara during Nintendo's E3 2017 presentation, where Ishihara mentioned that Game Freak was working on a new core series Pokémon role-playing game for Nintendo Switch but it wouldn't release for more than a year. During a press conference held by The Pokémon Company in Japan on May 30, 2018, Junichi Masuda confirmed that the next brand-new Pokémon core series games would release on Switch in the second half of 2019. Ishihara also assured that the then-upcoming titles would not have influences from Pokémon Go like Let's Go, Pikachu! and Let's Go, Eevee! had, and that it would introduce many new Pokémon and "polished" graphics. Sword and Shield were fully unveiled in a special Nintendo Direct presentation on February 27, 2019, introducing the games' region and starter Pokémon. The presentation coincided with Pokémon Day, a fan celebration of Pokémon on the anniversary of the Japanese release of Pokémon Red and Green. A second Nintendo Direct about the games was held on June 5, 2019, which revealed some of its new features, characters and Pokémon, including the legendary Pokémon Zacian and Zamazenta, which appear on the box art. The release date of November 15, 2019, was also announced as part of this presentation. Game Freak intentionally limited the number of new Pokémon revealed through promotional material to encourage players to discover them in-game. A promotional crossover between Sword and Shield and Tetris 99 occurred from November 8–11 with a limited-time unlockable theme based on the games being available during the event. A web app was also released, allowing the viewer to explore the Wild Area online. In Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, an online tournament themed around Pokémon was held from November 15–18 to promote Sword and Shield release. In addition, a spirit event occurred from November 22–27, where some Pokémon were available as spirits..  The decision not to include all pre-existing Pokémon in the games drew criticism from many fans, who referred to it as "Dexit", a portmanteau of Pokédex and Brexit and used the hashtag "#BringBackNationalDex" to discuss the matter on social media. Fan backlash focused on the removal of a long-standing aspect of the franchise, the discarding of its former English tagline "gotta catch 'em all", and a perceived lack of improvements in other areas of the games, such as the graphics and animations. Some fans called for the games to be delayed until all of the Pokémon could be added. Writing for Polygon, Patricia Hernandez commented that "to some degree, the backlash makes sense" while adding that it had "gotten out of hand". Alex Donaldson of VG247 noted that feature creep—the increase of content in game sequels and potential loss of older features—finally reached Pokémon, and long overlooked design shortcomings of Game Freak were brought to the forefront as a result. In discussing the overall backlash, Kotaku Gita Jackson summarized it as "the tension of a desire to indulge in nostalgia against a desire to experience more complexity." Joe Merrick, webmaster of fan site Serebii, considered Dexit to have caused the most unrest among Pokémon fans since the troubled launch of Pokémon Bank in 2013. Masuda formally responded to the criticism on June 28, 2019, two weeks after it erupted, expressing appreciation for the love and passion shown by fans. He reiterated that the removal of certain Pokémon was a difficult decision to make and that they would be available in different games in the future. Michael McWhertor of Polygon noted that while Masuda's statement acknowledged the fans' discontent, it " amount to much". Upon release, Pokémon Sword and Pokémon Shield received "generally favorable reviews" according to review aggregator Metacritic. Critics praised the games' simplicity, new elements such as Dynamaxing, and streamlined battle encounters, but were criticized for the incomplete Pokédex and not taking full advantage of their potential. Brian Shea from Game Informer praised the new gameplay elements, particularly the Dynamax element for its gameplay and visual flair and lack of overuse, stating, "while the Dynamax mechanic has the potential to disrupt the flow of any battle, it doesn't factor into most encounters, since it can only be used in Gym battles and select other situations". Casey DeFreitas for IGN also praised Sword and Shield for their fun gameplay and lack of monotonous activities, while criticizing aspects such as cutscenes and lack of a full Pokédex. Writing for GameSpot, Kallie Plagge also praised the pair for easy-to-understand game systems and sense of freedom stating, "you're not held back by overly complicated back-end systems or hoops to jump through; from the outset, you can start wandering the Galar region, seeing its new Pokémon, and trying out its new battle strategies with very little in your way." Conversely, Chris Tapsell for Eurogamer criticized the games, commenting that it lacked substance and did not live up to previous titles in the series. Tapsell commented "this is a new generation of Pokémon games that promises much, with brilliant new Pokémon, a raft of intricate system-tinkering for long-term fans and a series-first stab at an 'open-world' area. But all that's new seems to have come at a cost – and the cost is almost everything else in the game." James Grebey and Tom Philip of GQ also felt somewhat underwhelmed, praising the Wild Area, but stating that the games were "satisfying but pedestrian" and feel like "proof of concept, but there's another stage of evolution left for console Pokémon games". They also said that "there is... a lot in Sword and Shield that doesn't feel like it couldn't have been achieved on the Nintendo 3DS." In Japan, Sword and Shield sold 2 million copies during their first three days on sale, surpassing Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as the fastest-selling Switch games in that region. In the US, they sold more than 2 million copies in their opening weekend. As of November 21, 2019, Sword and Shield have sold more than 6 million copies worldwide, surpassing Super Smash Bros. Ultimate as the fastest-selling Switch games worldwide.