'The Morning Show' is an American drama web television series starring Jennifer Aniston, Reese Witherspoon, and Steve Carell, that premiered on Apple TV+ on November 1, 2019. The series is inspired by journalist Brian Stelter's book Top of the Morning: Inside the Cutthroat World of Morning TV.. Alex Levy anchors The Morning Show, a popular news program broadcast from Manhattan on the UBA network that has excellent ratings and is perceived to have changed the face of American television. After her on-air partner of 15 years, Mitch Kessler, is fired amidst a sexual misconduct scandal, Alex fights to retain her job as top news anchor while sparking a rivalry with Bradley Jackson, a haphazard field reporter whose series of impulsive decisions bring her into a new world of TV journalism..  Jennifer Aniston as Alex Levy, co-host of UBA's The Morning Show Reese Witherspoon as Bradley Jackson, a field reporter turned TMS co-host Billy Crudup as Cory Ellison, a UBA executive from the network's entertainment division who recently took over news operations Mark Duplass as Charlie "Chip" Black, the Executive Producer of The Morning Show Gugu Mbatha-Raw as Hannah Shoenfeld, The Morning Show's chief segment producer Néstor Carbonell as Yanko Flores, The Morning Show's meteorologist Karen Pittman as Mia Jordan, a producer at TMS Bel Powley as Claire Canway, a production assistant at TMS Desean Terry as Daniel Henderson, the co-host of TMS's weekend edition who has his sights set on the weekday host's chair Jack Davenport as Jason Craig, Alex's husband whom she is secretly separated from Steve Carell as Mitch Kessler, the recently-fired co-host of The Morning Show Janina Gavankar as Alison Namazi, Daniel's co-host on TMS's weekend edition Tom Irwin as Fred Micklen, UBA's president Victoria Tate as Rena Robinson Joe Marinelli as Donny Spagnoli Ian Gomez as Greg Augustus Prew as Sean Shari Belafonte as Julia Amber Friendly as Layla Bell Katherine Ko as Dhillon Reece-Smith Eli Bildner as Joel Rapkin David Magidoff as Nicky Brooks Marcia Gay Harden as Maggie Brener Kate Vernon as Geneva Micklen Andrea Bendewald as Valérie Hannah Leder as Isabella Roman Mitichyan as Sam Rudo Oona Roche as Lizzy Craig Joe Pacheco as Bart Daley Michelle Meredith as Lindsey Sherman Mindy Kaling as Audra Adina Porter as Sarah Graveler Brett Butler as Sandy Jackson Joe Tippett as Hal Jackson Philip Anthony-Rodriguez as Gabriel Fred Melamed as Neal Altman Ahna O'Reilly as Ashley Brown Natalia Warner as Cecily Mark Harelik as Richard Markus Flanagan as Gerald Embeth Davidtz as Paige Kessler Andrew Leeds as Alan John Marshall Jones as Noah Zuri Hall as Herself Martin Short as The director Kelly Clarkson as Herself Kelly Sullivan as Vicki Manderly David Morse as Mr. Jackson Julian Morris as Andrew Cheyenne Jackson as Himself Robert Cicchini as Robert Mike O'Malley as Tim Eavers Romy Rosemont as Sheila Lutkin Brian Bowen Smith as Photographer Diana-Maria Riva as Charlene.  On November 8, 2017, it was announced that Apple had given the production a series order consisting of two seasons of ten episodes apiece. The series was set to be executive produced by Jennifer Aniston, Reese Witherspoon, Jay Carson, and Michael Ellenberg. Carson was expected to act as a writer and showrunner for the series as well. Production companies involved with the series were slated to consist of Media Res, Echo Films, and Hello Sunshine. On April 4, 2018, it was announced that Carson had departed the production over creative differences. He was expected to be replaced as executive producer and showrunner by Kerry Ehrin. On July 11, 2018, it was reported that Mimi Leder would serve as a director and executive producer for the series. On October 23, 2018, it was reported that Kristin Hahn and Lauren Levy Neustadter would serve as additional executive producers for the series. The show cost $15 million per episode, with Aniston and Witherspoon each earning $2 million per episode, not including producing fees and ownership points. Alongside the initial series announcement, it was confirmed that Aniston and Witherspoon had been cast in the series' lead roles. In October 2018, it was announced that Steve Carell, Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Billy Crudup, Néstor Carbonell and Mark Duplass had been cast in series regular roles. On November 7, 2018, it was reported that Bel Powley, Karen Pittman, and Desean Terry had joined the main cast of the series. Principal photography for the first season commenced on October 31, 2018, at the James Oviatt Building in Los Angeles, California. Filming continued in Los Angeles until filming started in New York City on May 9, 2019. Filming of the first season also wrapped in May 2019, after seven months of filming. Production on the second season is set to begin in November 2019 and filming in February 2020.. After the Apple Special Event of March 25, 2019, Witherspoon announced on Instagram that the series would premiere in the fall of 2019. During the Apple Special Event, a teaser trailer was released with footage from the series as well footage from other original series set to premiere on Apple TV+. Furthermore, Aniston, Witherspoon and Carrell were at the event to tease the series. On August 12, 2019, Apple released a first look trailer for the series. It was also revealed that the series will be titled Morning Wars in Australia, in order to distinguish the series from the Australian morning talk show of the same name. On August 19, 2019, Apple released a full trailer for the series.. The review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 63% approval rating, based on 93 reviews, with an average rating of 5.63/10. The website's critical consensus reads, "Flashy, but somewhat frivolous, The Morning Show often feels more like a vanity project than the hard-hitting drama it aspires to be—but there is pleasure to be had in watching Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon give it their all." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 60 out of 100 based on reviews from 31 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews". Richard Roeper of the Chicago Sun-Times gave a positive review and wrote: "The Morning Show doesn't have the cinematic gravitas of the Showtime series The Loudest Voice or the Aaron Sorkin poetry of HBO's The Newsroom. It's more along the lines of the solid but underachieving Sports Night TV series from the late 1990s."