Deontay Leshun Wilder is an American professional boxer. He has held the WBC heavyweight title since 2015, and in doing so became the first American world heavyweight champion in nine years, which was the longest period of time in boxing history without an American heavyweight champion. Wilder had a late start to boxing, taking up the sport at 20 years of age. As an amateur, he won a bronze medal in the heavyweight division at the 2008 Olympics. This led to his nickname of "The Bronze Bomber", which Wilder coined after Joe Louis, who was known by the nickname of "The Brown Bomber". Wilder is particularly known for his formidable punching power, having finished all but two of his fights inside the distance, and has succeeded in knocking out every opponent he has faced, except Tyson Fury. His knockout-to-win ratio stands at 98%, with 20 knockouts in the first round. He is a two-time winner of the Premier Boxing Champions award, in 2016 and 2017. As of November 2019, Wilder is ranked as the world's best active heavyweight by BoxRec, second by The Ring magazine and third by the Transnational Boxing Rankings Board, as well as the world's tenth best active boxer, pound for pound, by BoxRec.. Wilder started boxing in October 2005 when he entered Skyy Boxing Gym in Northport, Alabama, and began training under Jay Deas. Wilder was 20 at that time. By 2007 he upset the favorites to win both the National Golden Gloves and the US championships at 201&nbsp;lb .  Wilder made his professional debut at the age of 23 on November 15, 2008, at the Vanderbilt University Memorial Gymnasium in Nashville, Tennessee. He faced Ethan Cox . Wilder was much less accurate in this fight than he usually had been in previous fights. Fury out-landed Wilder in nine out of the twelve rounds. Both Wilder and Fury only landed double digits in four separate rounds. After the fight, both men gave in-ring interviews. Wilder stated, "I think with the two knockdowns, I definitely won the fight. We poured our hearts out tonight. We're both warriors. I rushed my punches. I didn't sit still. I was too hesitant. I started overthrowing the right hand, and I just couldn't adjust. I was rushing my punches. That's something I usually don't do." Fury said, "We're on away soil. I got knocked down twice, but I still believe I won that fight. I'm being a total professional here. God bless America. The 'Gypsy King' has returned. That man is a fearsome puncher, and I was able to avoid that. The world knows I won the fight. I hope I did you all proud after nearly three years out of the ring. I showed good heart to get up. I came here tonight, and I fought my heart out." Wilder and Fury both claimed to be the best heavyweights in the world and both called out unified world champion Anthony Joshua. Fury shouted, “Chicken! Chicken! Joshua, where are you?” Wilder then agreed to state the two best heavyweights got into the ring and fought. The event was both a critical and a commercial success. The fight reportedly sold approximately 350,000 pay-per-view buys on Showtime in the United States, grossing around $30 million, making it the most lucrative heavyweight fight in the country since John Ruiz vs. Roy Jones Jr. in 2003. Showtime's delayed broadcast a week later drew an average 488,000 viewers and peaked at 590,000 viewers. On the evening of May 18, 2019, Wilder defended his WBC heavyweight title against Dominic Breazeale via knockout in the first round. Wilder caught him with a powerful right which sent Breazeale flat on his back and unable to continue with the referee waving off the contest after reaching the ten count.. Wilder has 8 children. Wilder's first child, a daughter with ex-girlfriend Helen Duncan, was born in 2005 with spina bifida. Wilder also has two other daughters and one son with Jessica Scales-Wilder, whom he married in 2009 and later divorced. Wilder is currently engaged to and has a child with Telli Swift and has been featured on the reality television show, WAGS Atlanta. Wilder graduated from Tuscaloosa Central High School in 2004 and dreamed of playing football for his hometown Alabama Crimson Tide, but the birth of his oldest daughter and poor grades caused him to attend nearby Shelton State Community College and to focus on a boxing career. Deontay's younger brother Marsellos Wilder is also a professional boxer. Marsellos currently fights in the cruiserweight division and has a 5-2 record.