Kristen Jaymes Stewart .. Stewart was born in Los Angeles, California, on April 9, 1990. Both of her parents work in the entertainment industry. Her American father, John Stewart, is a stage manager and television producer who has worked for Fox and on the Comedy Central show @midnight. Her Australian mother, Jules Mann-Stewart, is originally from Maroochydore, Queensland. She is a script supervisor and also directed the 2012 film K-11. Stewart has an older brother, Cameron B. Stewart, and two adopted brothers, Dana and Taylor. Stewart attended local schools until the seventh grade. As she became more involved in acting, she continued her education by distance until completing high school..  As she grew up with a family who worked behind the camera, Stewart thought she would become a screenwriter/director, but never considered being an actor. She recalled, "I never wanted to be the center of attention—I wasn't that 'I want to be famous, I want to be an actor' kid. I never sought out acting, but I always practiced my autograph because I love pens. I'd write my name on everything." She began acting at 8, after an agent saw her perform in her elementary school's Christmas play. After auditioning for a year, Stewart gained her first role with a small, nonspeaking part in the Disney Channel television film The Thirteenth Year. Her next film was The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas, where she played the "ring toss girl". She also appeared in the independent film The Safety of Objects . Stewart appears as Mary Lou in On the Road, the film adaptation of Jack Kerouac's novel of the same name. According to Forbes, Stewart was the highest-paid actress in 2012, with total earnings of $34.5 million. She earned $12.5 million each for the last two installments in the Twilight series, including royalties. On February 24, 2013, she presented at the 85th Academy Awards with actor Daniel Radcliffe. On December 11, 2013, Chanel announced that Stewart was its "new face" for a Western-inspired fashion collection. The campaign has been shot by Karl Lagerfeld and was released online in May 2014. In 2014, Balenciaga released a new fragrance, Rosabotanica, with Stewart remaining the face of the brand. She was ranked #3 on Forbes highest-paid actress in 2013, with a total earning of $22 million, #10 in 2014 with $12 million, and #9 in 2015 with $12 million. Camp X-Ray, her first film of 2014, was premiered at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival on January 17. Her portrayal of a young soldier stationed at Guantanamo Bay detention camp won positive reviews from the critics. David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter called it "her best screen work to date an inexperienced military guard", while Xan Brooks of The Guardian said, "It's a role that reminds us what a fine performer she was in the likes of Into the Wild and Adventureland.". In 2014 she appeared in the music video for Jenny Lewis' "One of The Guys", and in The New York Times short movie 9 Kisses. Stewart next appeared alongside Juliette Binoche and Chloë Grace Moretz in Clouds of Sils Maria. The film had its premiere at 2014 Cannes Film Festival. Her performance in the film earned her critical acclaim. Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter said that "Stewart's habitual low-keyed style, which can border on the monotone, functions as effectively underplayed contrast." Peter Debruge of Variety praised her, saying that "Stewart is the one who actually embodies what Binoche's character most fears, countering the older actress’ more studied technique with the same spontaneous, agitated energy that makes her the most compellingly watchable American actress of her generation." Robbie Collin of the Daily Telegraph praised her, saying "...it's Stewart who really shines here. Valentine is probably her best role to date: she's sharp and subtle, knowable and then suddenly distant, and a late, surprising twist is handled with a brilliant lightness of touch." For the role Stewart won a César Award for Best Supporting Actress, becoming the first American actress to receive a nomination in thirty years. She is the second American winner after Adrien Brody, who won César Award for Best Actor in 2003. Stewart appeared alongside Julianne Moore in Still Alice, a drama film that had its world premiere at the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival. Her performance received praise from critics. Peter Travers of Rolling Stone called her "wonderfully vibrant and contentious" and said: "Even when Still Alice sometimes slips into sentiment, Moore and Stewart are funny, fierce and glorious. In 2015, she was named #1 on Glamours list of "Best Dressed Women". She appeared in Tim Blake Nelson's Anesthesia, an indie drama about a group of New Yorkers, which was released on January 8, 2016 by IFC Films. She costarred with Jesse Eisenberg again in American Ultra, which was filmed from April to June 2014, and was released on August 21, 2015. In December 2015 she starred in Once and Forever, which was directed by Karl Lagerfeld. Stewart co-starred along with Nicholas Hoult in Drake Doremus' futuristic love story Equals which was released on July 15, 2016. The filming took place in Japan and Singapore from August to September 2014. In 2015, Stewart was confirmed to join Certain Women directed by Kelly Reichardt; the film was released on October 14, 2016. In 2016, she starred in the Woody Allen movie Café Society, opposite Steve Carell and Jesse Eisenberg, marking her third collaboration with the latter. it was released on July 15, 2016. Stewart also reunited with Clouds of Sils Maria director Olivier Assayas to lead his film Personal Shopper, a ghost story that takes place in the fashion industry. She also co-starred in Ang Lee's war drama Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk, which was released on November 11, 2016. In December 2016, Stewart appeared in the music video for the Rolling Stones' single "Ride 'Em on Down". In 2016 Stewart became the youngest actress to be an honoree at the New York Film Festival. In the same year, Stewart was also an honoree at Elle's Women in Hollywood Awards alongside Amy Adams, Felicity Jones, Anna Kendrick, Aja Naomi King, Helen Mirren, and Lupita Nyong'o. On May 2, 2016, it was announced that Stewart will make her directorial debut with a short film titled Water for female-focused digital publisher Refinery29. The short will be part of their ShatterBox Anthology. In July 2016, it was confirmed that Stewart's short film will be titled Come Swim in an interview with Philippine Daily Inquirer. It had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival in January 2017. During the 2017 Sundance Film Festival, Stewart revealed that her next short film will be about gun control. In December 2016, Stewart starred in the official music video for "Ride 'Em On Down" by The Rolling Stones. In 2017, Stewart coauthored a computer science preprint about the use of Neural net techniques in the making of her short film Come Swim. That same year, Stewart hosted Saturday Night Live for the first time with musical guest Alessia Cara. and was invited to join the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences In 2018, Stewart appeared in Lizzie, opposite Chloë Sevigny, revolving around Lizzie Borden, directed by Craig William Macneill, which had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival in January 2018. It was released on September 14, 2018, by Saban Films and Roadside Attractions. The film received mixed reviews from critics. She also starred in JT LeRoy, a biopic revolving around Laura Albert, alongside Laura Dern and Diane Kruger. She also appeared in the music video for Interpol's "If You Really Love Nothing". She also served as a member of the jury for the official competition of the 71st Cannes Film Festival. In 2019, Stewart starred in Seberg portraying the role of actress Jean Seberg, directed by Benedict Andrews. The film had its world premiere at the Venice Film Festival on August 30, 2019. While the film received mixed reviews from critics, Stewart's performance received rave reviews, with one deeming it "arguably, the finest performance of her eclectic career." It is scheduled to be released on December 13, 2019, by Amazon Studios. Time Magazine declared her performance the #10th best performance of 2019. She next starred in Charlie's Angels alongside Naomi Scott and Ella Balinska, directed by Elizabeth Banks. The film was released on November 15, 2019, by Columbia Pictures. Stewart's performance in the film received rave reviews from critics who described it as "hilarious". Stewart will next appear in Underwater, an adventure-thriller film directed and co-written by William Eubank scheduled to be released on January 10, 2020 by 20th Century Fox. She will then star in Happiest Season, a LGBT holiday romance film opposite Mackenzie Davis directed by Clea DuVall set for a November 20, 2020, release. Stewart revealed she is working on her feature film directorial debut, which will be an adaptation of writer Lidia Yuknavitch's memoir The Chronology of Water, which she will also write. She is also attached to star alongside Riley Keough in a Netflix television series adaptation of Gina Frangello's novel A Life in Men, produced by Charlize Theron. and to play Joan Vollmer, the most prominent female member of the Beat Generation, alongside Ben Foster in his untitled directorial debut, an adaptation of William S. Burroughs' early works and letters.. Stewart lives in Los Angeles. She dated her Speak co-star Michael Angarano until early 2009. In mid-2009, she started dating Twilight co-star Robert Pattinson. In July 2012, she was photographed having an affair with her Snow White and the Huntsman director Rupert Sanders. Sanders, who was 19 years older than Stewart and married at the time, issued a public apology for the affair, as did Stewart. Pattinson and Stewart split, but reconciled in October 2012. The pair eventually broke up in May 2013. In mid-2013, Stewart started dating visual effects producer Alicia Cargile. She shortly dated French singer Soko in early 2016, before she resumed dating Cargile from mid-2016 until late 2016. In late 2016, she briefly dated musician Annie Clark, known professionally as St. Vincent. From late 2016, she was in a relationship with New Zealand model Stella Maxwell until their breakup in late 2018. She dated stylist Sara Dinkin from December 2018 until May 2019. She resumed dating Maxwell from May to July 2019. Since August 2019, she is dating screenwriter Dylan Meyer. In her February 2017 appearance on Saturday Night Live, Stewart described herself as "so gay", and in an interview with The Guardian she clarified that she was bisexual, saying, "You're not confused if you're bisexual. It's not confusing at all. For me, it's quite the opposite." Similarly in an interview with Harper's Bazaar in August 2017, Stewart stated that she was open to dating men again, saying, "I want to try everything". She signed her Breaking Dawn – Part 2 dress and gave it to a CharityBuzz auction benefiting the Robin Hood Foundation's Sandy Relief Fund, which provides long-term support to those affected by Hurricane Sandy. In 2013, she reportedly raised $500,000 for the Sandy relief effort by meeting with an unnamed "Middle Eastern Prince" for 15 minutes.. Stewart was listed as the highest-earning female actress in the Vanity Fair "Hollywood Top Earners List of 2010", with estimated earnings of $28.5&nbsp;million. In 2011, she was named number one on Forbes list of "Hollywood's Best Actors for the Buck". Forbes also named her as the highest-paid actress in 2012, with total earnings of $34.5 million. In 2008 she ranked #17 on Entertainment Weeklys "30 Under 30" the actress list, and she was also named the Movie Fanatic's Hottest Young Actress, and she also was ranked #9 on Moviefone’s “The 25 Hottest Actors Under 25". She was ranked #3 in FHM Onlines "Sexiest Women in the World", and ranked #13 in the magazine's list of "Sexiest Women in the World". She ranked #7 on AskMen's list of Top 99 Women for 2013. Stewart is the brand ambassador of Chanel and Balenciaga fashion brands.. Stewart has received a César Award, a Milano Film Festival award, a Young Artist Award and the BAFTA Rising Star Award. She won the National Society of Film Critics, New York Film Critics Circle, and Boston Society of Film Critics Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in Clouds of Sils Maria.