Timothée Hal Chalamet . On stage, Chalamet has starred in John Patrick Shanley's autobiographical play Prodigal Son in 2016, for which he was nominated for a Drama League Award and won a Lucille Lortel Award.. Chalamet was born on December 27, 1995 in New York City's Manhattan borough and grew up in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood. His parents are Nicole Flender, a real estate broker and former Broadway dancer, and Marc Chalamet, an editor for UNICEF. His American mother, a third-generation New Yorker, is of Russian Jewish and Austrian Jewish descent, and his French father, who lived in Nîmes, is from a Protestant background. Chalamet's older sister, Pauline , is a former Broadway dancer. Growing up, Chalamet spent summers in Le Chambon-sur-Lignon, a small French village two hours away from Lyon, at the home of his paternal grandparents. His paternal grandmother, who had moved to France, was originally Canadian. Chalamet stated that his time in France led to cross-cultural identity issues. "Once I was there, I became the French version of myself," he told La Presse. "I was completely imbued with the culture, and I even dreamed in French." His childhood dream was to become a professional soccer player, "I was a coach at a soccer camp in France. I coached six to ten-year-olds when I was around thirteen." Chalamet attended PS 87 William T. Sherman School for elementary school, and later the selective Delta program at MS 54 Booker T. Washington Middle School, which he described as a "miserable three years" due to the lack of a creative outlet within the school's academically rigorous environment. His acceptance into Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts was a turning point in his appreciation for acting. He stated, "I had some excellent teachers and really fell in love with it. I saw that it could be and should be treated as a craft". Harry Shifman, his sophomore year drama teacher at LaGuardia, was so impressed by his audition that he insisted on Chalamet's acceptance into the school even though he had been rejected in the interview, saying "I gave him the highest score I've ever given a kid auditioning." He graduated in 2013 and starred in school musicals as Emcee in Cabaret and Oscar Lindquist in Sweet Charity. He is also a YoungArts alumnus. After high school, Chalamet attended Columbia University for one year, majoring in cultural anthropology. He later transferred to New York University's Gallatin School of Individualized Study to pursue his acting career more freely..  As a child, Chalamet appeared in several commercials and acted in two horror short films like Sweet Tooth and Clown before making his television debut on an episode of the long-running police procedural series Law & Order . Due to an accusation of sexual assault against Allen, Chalamet donated his salary to the charities Time's Up, LGBT Center of New York, and RAINN. He next portrayed Henry V of England, a young prince who unwittingly ascends the English Throne, in David Michôd's Netflix period drama The King, based on several plays from Shakespeare's Henriad. Richard Lawson of Vanity Fair wrote, "Chalamet does robust work, straightening his lanky posture as he goes, rising up into the role like a man ascendant". , Chalamet has four upcoming projects. He will play Theodore "Laurie" Laurence in Greta Gerwig's Little Women, an adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's novel of the same name, featuring an ensemble cast that also includes Saoirse Ronan, Emma Watson, Laura Dern, and Meryl Streep. He also will star as the main character Paul Atreides in Denis Villeneuve's adaptation of the science fiction novel Dune, and in Wes Anderson's ensemble drama The French Dispatch. Chalamet will make his West End theatre debut in April 2020, in Amy Herzog's play 4000 Miles, co-starring Eileen Atkins.. Chalamet resides in New York City. He is fluent in English and French. He holds dual citizenship in the United States and France.. Chalamet was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor for his performance in Call Me by Your Name. He was also nominated for a BAFTA Award, a Golden Globe Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a Critics' Choice Award, all for Best Actor. Chalamet also gained recognition for his supporting role in Lady Bird receiving nominations for the Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Acting Ensemble and the SAG Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture along with the rest of the cast. For his work in Beautiful Boy, he was nominated for a Golden Globe Award, a BAFTA Award, an SAG Award, and a Critics' Choice Award, all for Best Supporting Actor.