Tulsi Gabbard is an American politician and Hawaii Army National Guard major serving as the U.S. Representative for Hawaii's 2nd congressional district. Elected in 2012, she is the first practicing Hindu and the first Samoan-American member of Congress. Gabbard's announcement of her intention to seek the Democratic nomination in the 2020 US presidential election made her the first female combat veteran to run for president. In 2002, Gabbard was elected to the Hawaii House of Representatives. In 2004, she became the first state legislator to voluntarily step down from public office for a tour of duty in a war zone. Gabbard served in a field medical unit of the Hawaii Army National Guard in a combat zone in Iraq from 2004 to 2005 and was deployed to Kuwait from 2008 to 2009. She was a vice chair of the Democratic National Committee from 2013 to 2016, when she resigned to endorse Senator Bernie Sanders for the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination. Gabbard's domestic policy platform in her campaign for the 2020 Democratic nomination is economically and socially progressive and has been described as "similar to Bernie Sanders ... in many respects". She supports Medicare for All and strengthening the reproductive rights framework of Roe v Wade by codifying it into federal law. She voted and lobbied against LGBT rights in Hawaii prior to her first tour of duty, but since 2011 Gabbard has apologized for her earlier positions and now supports LGBT rights. Gabbard opposes military interventionism but has called herself a "hawk" on terrorism. Her decision to meet Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and expressions of skepticism about his use of chemical weapons in the Syrian Civil War attracted controversy. On October 25, 2019, Gabbard announced that she will not seek another term in Congress.. Gabbard was born on April 12, 1981, in Leloaloa, Maoputasi County, on American Samoa's main island of Tutuila. She was the fourth of five children born to Mike Gabbard and his wife Carol Gabbard. Her father is of Samoan and European ancestry. Her mother was born in Indiana and grew up in Michigan. In 1983, when Gabbard was two years old, her family moved to Hawaii. Gabbard embraced the Hindu faith as a teenager. Gabbard was home-schooled through high school except for two years at informal schools in the Philippines. In 1996, Gabbard and her father, Mike Gabbard, co-founded Healthy Hawaiʻi Coalition, an environmental educational group. She graduated from Hawaii Pacific University with a Bachelor of Science degree in business administration in 2009.. In the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks, Gabbard and her father co-founded the nonprofit Stand Up For America and earning a place as a finalist, Gabbard was listed as an OCS platoon trainer and vice president of the Healthy Hawaii Coalition.. In April 2003, while serving in the State Legislature, Gabbard enlisted in the Hawaii Army National Guard. In July 2004, she was deployed for a 12-month tour in Iraq, serving as a specialist with the Medical Company, 29th Support Battalion, 29th Infantry Brigade Combat Team. Gabbard served at Logistical Support Area Anaconda in Iraq, completing her tour in 2005. In March 2007, she graduated from the Accelerated Officer Candidate School at the Alabama Military Academy. Gabbard was the first woman to finish as the distinguished honor graduate in the Academy's 50-year history. She was commissioned as a second lieutenant and assigned to the 29th Brigade Special Troops Battalion, 29th Infantry Brigade Combat Team of the Hawaii Army National Guard, this time to serve as an Army Military Police officer. She was deployed to Kuwait from 2008 to 2009. Gabbard is a recipient of the Combat Medical Badge and the Meritorious Service Medal. On October 12, 2015, she was promoted from captain to major at a ceremony at the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific She continues to serve as a major in the Hawaii Army National Guard. On August 7, 2018, the Honolulu Star-Advertiser reported that the Hawaii Army National Guard had instructed Gabbard that a video of her in uniform on her VoteTulsi Facebook page did not comply with military ethics rules. Gabbard's campaign removed the video and added a disclaimer to the website's banner image of Gabbard in uniform in a veterans' cemetery that the image does not imply an endorsement from the military. A similar situation had happened during a previous Gabbard congressional campaign. A spokeswoman for Gabbard said the campaign would work closely with the Department of Defense to ensure compliance with all regulations.. In 2002, after redistricting, Gabbard * Subcommittee on National Security, International Development and Monetary Policy* Subcommittee on Diversity and Inclusion Caucus membership Congressional Progressive Caucus Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus Congressional NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus Medicare for All Caucus U.S.-Japan Caucus On January 22, 2013, Gabbard was unanimously elected to a four-year term as vice chair of the Democratic National Committee. She was critical of chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz's decision to hold only six debates during the 2016 Democratic Party presidential primaries, compared with 26 in 2008 and 15 in 2004. Along with Minneapolis mayor R. T. Rybak and two candidates, Gabbard called for more debates, appearing on multiple news outlets to express her dissatisfaction with the reduction in the number. Later she was either "disinvited" or asked to "consider not coming" to the Democratic debate in Las Vegas as a consequence. In a phone interview with the New York Times, Gabbard spoke of an unhealthy atmosphere and the feeling that she had "checked reputation". Fellow 2020 Democratic presidential candidates Andrew Yang, Marianne Williamson, Beto O'Rourke, Pete Buttigieg;, John Delaney,, Bernie Sanders, as well as President Trump and Nina Turner defended Gabbard and criticized Clinton's remarks. About a week after the initial reports, some mainstream media outlets changed their reporting to say it was not Russians but Republicans who Clinton thought were doing the grooming. CNN reported in early November that after Clinton called Gabbard "a favorite of the Russians", Gabbard's poll numbers rose by at least two percentage points, making her eligible for the upcoming debate. On November 11, lawyers for Gabbard accused Hillary Clinton of defamation and demanded she verbally retract her remarks. The lawyers wrote, “This Republicans-not-Russians spin developed only after you realized the defamatory nature of your statement, and therefore your legal liability, as well as the full extent of the public backlash against your statement." On October 25, 2019, Gabbard announced that she would not seek re-election to her house seat in 2020 in order to focus on her presidential campaign.. Gabbard's political positions are broadly similar to those of other 2020 Democratic primary contenders on healthcare, climate, education, infrastructure, and criminal justice reform. But she has taken unconventional stances on issues ranging from Democratic Party internal politics to foreign affairs. For Gabbard, foreign and domestic policy are inseparable. She criticizes what she terms the "neoliberal/neoconservative war machine", which pushes for US involvement in "wasteful foreign wars". She has said that the money spent on war should be redirected to serve domestic needs. Nevertheless, she describes herself as both a hawk and a dove: "When it comes to the war against terrorists, I'm a hawk", but "when it comes to counterproductive wars of regime change, I'm a dove." Gabbard resigned from the DNC over dissatisfaction with the reduction in the number of primary debates in 2016 and its decision not to support Bernie Sanders in the primary. In 2017, Gabbard had an unplanned meeting with Syrian president Bashar al-Assad, and expressed skepticism about Assad's use of chemical weapons against civilians, saying "a successful prosecution of Assad as legislation to transition the United States to clean renewable energy. Gabbard has been outspoken against a “broken criminal justice system” that puts “people in prison for smoking marijuana" while allowing pharmaceutical corporations responsible for "opioid-related deaths of thousands to walk away scot-free with their coffers full." In 1998, at age 17, Gabbard campaigned for an anti-gay rights organization her father founded. She continued to oppose gay rights after becoming a state representative, when in 2004 she successfully led opposition to House Bill 1024, which would have given same-sex couples with civil unions the same legal rights as married couples. Her opposition to the bill included leading a protest outside the committee room. Gabbard has since apologized for her previous stances and said that her views were changed by her experience in the military "with LGBTQ service members both here at home and while deployed" as well as seeing "the destructive effect of having governments … act as moral arbiters for their people." She has been member of the House LGBT Equality Caucus during her first, third and fourth terms in Congress, and has a 100% record in Congress for pro-LGBT legislation from the Human Rights Campaign, a group that advocates for LGBT rights. Gabbard protested the construction of the final leg of the Dakota Access Pipeline in 2016.. Gabbard's first name comes from the Sanskrit word for Holy Basil, a plant sacred in Hinduism. Her siblings also have Hindu Sanskrit-origin names. During her childhood Gabbard excelled in martial arts. She is vegan and, as a Hindu, follows Gaudiya Vaishnavism, a religious movement founded by Chaitanya Mahaprabhu in the 16th century. Gabbard describes herself as a karma yogi. She values the Bhagavad Gita as a spiritual guide, and used it when she took the in 2013. Gabbard has said that she is pleased that her election gives hope to young American Hindus who "can be open about their faith, and even run for office, without fear of being discriminated against or attacked because of their religion". In 2002, Gabbard married Eduardo Tamayo. They divorced in 2006. She cites "the stresses war places on military spouses and families" as a reason for their divorce. In 2015, Gabbard married freelance cinematographer and editor Abraham Williams in a traditional Vedic wedding ceremony, wearing blue silk.. On November 25, 2013, Gabbard received the John F. Kennedy New Frontier Award at a ceremony at the Institute of Politics at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government for her efforts on behalf of veterans. On March 26, 2014, Elle honored Gabbard, with others, at the Italian Embassy in the United States during its annual "Women in Washington Power List". On July 15, 2015, Gabbard received the Friend of the National Parks Award from the National Parks Conservation Association.