James Daniel Jordan is an American politician, wrestler and former collegiate wrestling coach. He entered politics and has served as the U.S. Representative for since 2007. A member of the Republican Party, he has been the ranking member of the House Oversight Committee since 2019. Jordan is a founding member of the Freedom Caucus, which he chaired from its establishment in 2015 until 2017. His district stretches from Lake Erie to just below Urbana in the north-central and western portions of the state and includes Lima, Marion, Tiffin, Urbana and Elyria.. Jordan was born and raised in Champaign County, Ohio. He attended and wrestled for Graham High School, graduating in 1982. He won state championships all four years he was in high school and compiled a 156-28-1 win-loss record. He then enrolled at the University of Wisconsin–Madison where he became a two-time NCAA Division I wrestling champion. Jordan won the 1985 and 1986 NCAA championship matches in the 134-pound weight class. He graduated with a bachelor's degree in economics in 1986. He lost the 57-62&nbsp;kg featherweight semi-final match at the 1988 US Olympic wrestling trials and did not make the Olympic Team. Jordan earned a master's degree in education from Ohio State University in Columbus and obtained a J.D. degree from Ohio's Capital University Law School in 2001. He claims that he did not take the bar examination. In a 2018 interview he said "Never took the bar exam, so don't, like - I'm not - I'm just a wannabe." Jordan was an assistant wrestling coach with Ohio State University's wrestling program from 1987 to 1995. During his tenure as Assistant Coach, at least 53 members of the Wrestling Team were sexually abused by the team physician. Jordan has refused to cooperate with the investigations into sexual misconduct at OSU and has refused all requests to be interviewed..  Jordan was elected to the Ohio House of Representatives in November 1994 and represented the 85th Ohio House district for three terms. In 2000, Jordan defeated independent candidate Jack Kaffenberger to win a seat in the Ohio Senate with 88% of the vote. In 2004, Jordan defeated Kaffenberger again, this time with 79% of the vote. Jordan currently represents Western Ohio's 4th Congressional District. The district has been redrawn over time to minimize urban area and increase the rural area; it is gerrymandered to avoid having Toledo, Columbus or Cleveland staff members", therefore abusing his authority. Talking to John Catsimatidis on WNYM, Jordan said he would force a vote on the impeachment of Rosenstein if the DOJ does not deliver documents Congress requested. In March 2019, Jordan came under criticism from House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler on the grounds of anti-Semitic messagery on Twitter while urging Nadler to resist calls for presidential impeachment. During Robert Mueller's testimony to two congressional committees on July 24, 2019, Jordan asked Mueller why he never charged Joseph Mifsud with lying to the FBI while George Papadopoulos was charged for lying about Mifsud. Jordan said: "Mifsud is the guy who told Papadopoulos , he was the guy who started it all, yet when the FBI interviews him, he lies three times. You don't charge him." Mueller responded: "Well I can't get into it and it's obvious, I think, that we can't get into charging decisions." On Nov 8th, Republicans formally made Rep. Jim Jordan a temporary member of the House Intelligence Committee, allowing him to lead the defense for President Donald Trumps public impeachment hearings. GOP Leader Kevin McCarthy tweeted about the move for Jordan, stating that Jordan's position was temporary and that Rep Rick Crawford would rejoin the Intelligence Committee "when this Democrat charade is over." Jordan criticized Speaker John Boehner's plan to raise the debt ceiling. In 2010, Jordan was chair of the Republican Study Committee, and during the U.S. government shutdown of 2013, he was still considered its most powerful member. That group was the primary proponent and executor of the Republican Congressional strategy to force a government shutdown, in order to force changes in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.. In a Politico article published October 29, 2017, John Boehner, former Speaker of the U. S. House of Representatives, called Jordan "an asshole". Boehner said "Jordan was a terrorist as a legislator going back to his days in the Ohio house and senate." Jordan and Warren Davidson conspired to engage in witness tampering and intimidation when they called Coleman and Coleman’s parents to pressure Coleman to recant his earlier accusation that Jordan was aware of the abuse. In November 2019, a retired wrestling referee filed a lawsuit alleging that he had warned Jordan and Hellickson about Strauss' misconduct. Jordan promptly dismissed the referee as "another person making a false statement".. Jordan and his wife Polly live near Urbana in central Champaign County. They were introduced by her brothers. Jim Jordan explained in an interview with the Washington Examiner in 2014 that he competed in wrestling with Polly’s brothers. He told the newspaper, “I decided it would be a lot more fun wrestling with Polly than her brothers.” They started dating when he was 13 and she was 14. They have four children and two grandchildren.