The 2020 United States presidential election, scheduled for Tuesday, November 3, 2020, will be the 59th quadrennial U.S. presidential election. Voters will select presidential electors who in turn on December 14, 2020, will either elect a new president and vice president or re-elect the incumbents. The series of presidential primary elections and caucuses is likely to be held during the first six months of 2020. This nominating process is also an indirect election, where voters cast ballots selecting a slate of delegates to a political party's nominating convention, who then in turn elect their party's nominee . Donald Trump, the 45th and incumbent president, has launched a reelection campaign for the Republican primaries; several state Republican Party organizations have cancelled their primaries in a show of support for his candidacy. 27 major candidates launched campaigns for the Democratic nomination, which became the largest field of candidates for any political party in the post-reform period of American politics. The winner of the 2020 presidential election is scheduled to be inaugurated on January 20, 2021..  Article Two of the United States Constitution states that for a person to serve as president the individual must be a natural-born citizen of the United States, at least 35 years old and a United States resident for at least 14 years. Candidates for the presidency typically seek the nomination of one of the various political parties of the United States, in which case each party develops a method , and often a party that wins a presidential election experiences a coattail effect which also helps other candidates of that party win elections. Therefore, the party that wins the 2020 presidential election could also win a significant advantage in the drawing of new Congressional and state legislative districts that would stay in effect until the 2032 elections.. Donald Trump is formally seeking re-election. His re-election campaign has been ongoing since his victory in 2016, leading pundits to describe his tactic of holding rallies continuously throughout his presidency as a "never-ending campaign". On January 20, 2017, at 5:11&nbsp;p.m., he submitted a letter as a substitute of FEC Form 2, by which he reached the legal threshold for filing, in compliance with the Federal Election Campaign Act. Beginning in August 2017, reports arose that members of the Republican Party were preparing a "shadow campaign" against Trump, particularly from the moderate or establishment wings of the party. Then-Arizona senator John McCain said, " to win. The country cannot afford to have him win. If I'm not successful, I'm not voting for him." On September 8, 2019, former South Carolina governor and representative Mark Sanford officially announced that he will be the third major Republican primary challenger to Trump, though he dropped out of the race on November 12.. After Hillary Clinton's loss in the previous election, the Democratic Party was seen largely as leaderless and fractured between the centrist Clinton wing and the more progressive Sanders wing of the party, echoing the rift brought up in the 2016 primary election. This divide between the establishment and progressive wings of the party has been reflected in several elections leading up to the 2020 primaries, most notably in 2017 with the election for DNC chair between Biden-backed moderate Tom Perez and Sanders-backed progressive Keith Ellison: Perez was elected chairman, but Ellison was appointed the deputy chair, a largely ceremonial role. In 2018, several U.S. House districts that Democrats hoped to gain from the Republican majority had contentious primary elections. These clashes were described by Politicos Elena Schneider as a "Democratic civil war." Meanwhile, there has been a general shift to the left in regards to college tuition, healthcare, and immigration among Democrats in the Senate, likely to build up credentials for the upcoming primary election. Perez has commented that the 2020 primary field would likely go into double digits, rivaling the size of the 2016 GOP primary, which consisted of 17 major candidates, setting a then-record for the largest presidential primary field for any political party in American history. Several female candidates are expected to enter the race, increasing the likelihood of the Democrats nominating a woman for the second time in a row. Speculation also mounted that Democrats' best bet to defeat President Trump would be to nominate their own celebrity or businessperson with no government experience, most notably Oprah Winfrey after her speech at the 75th Golden Globe Awards. The topic of age has been brought up among the most likely front-runners: former vice president Joe Biden, Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren, and Vermont senator Bernie Sanders, who will be 78, 71, and 79 respectively on inauguration day. Former Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid described the trio as "an old folks' home", expressing a need for fresh faces to step up and lead the party. There are 17 major candidates running active campaigns as of December 1, 2019. Counting the candidates who have dropped out, 28 major candidates have sought the 2020 Democratic nomination, breaking the aforementioned 2016 GOP primary's record for the largest presidential primary field for any political party since 1972.. On July 24, 2019, the Green Party of the United States officially recognized the campaign of Howie Hawkins. On August 26, 2019, Dario Hunter's campaign was also recognized. The remaining candidates may obtain formal recognition after meeting the established criteria by the party's Presidential Campaign Support Committee. On October 26, 2019, Hawkins was nominated by Socialist Party USA, in addition to seeking the Green nomination.. The 2020 Democratic National Convention is scheduled from July 13 to 16 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Houston, Texas and Miami Beach, Florida were also considered to host the convention. The 2020 Republican National Convention is planned to be held in Charlotte, North Carolina, from August 24 to 27. This will be the first time since 2004 that the two major party conventions will be held at least one month apart with the Summer Olympics in between . The 2020 Libertarian National Convention will be held in Austin, Texas, over Memorial Day weekend from May 22 to 25. The 2020 Green National Convention will be held in Detroit, Michigan from July9 to 12. Greenville, South Carolina and Spartanburg, South Carolina were also considered to host the convention. The 2020 Constitution Party National Convention will be held in Charlotte, North Carolina in April. However, the location may be changed to Atlanta, Georgia.. On October 11, 2019, the Commission on Presidential Debates announced that three general election debates would be held in the fall of 2020: the first is scheduled to take place on September 29 at the University of Notre Dame in Notre Dame, Indiana, the second is scheduled to take place on October 15 at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and the third is scheduled to take place on October 22 at Belmont University in Nashville, Tennessee. Additionally, one vice presidential debate is scheduled for October 7, 2020, at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City.. Most election predictors use: "tossup": no advantage "tilt" "safe" or "solid": near-certain chance of victory