KSI vs. Logan Paul was a white-collar amateur boxing match between the British YouTuber, Olajide "JJ" Olatunji , and American YouTuber, Logan Paul. The undercard consisted of a number of YouTubers, including a bout between the headliners respective younger brothers, Deji Olatunji and Jake Paul. The bout took place on 25 August 2018 at 8:30 PM BST in the Manchester Arena, Manchester, England, and was streamed on YouTube's pay-per-view platform, and resulted in a majority draw, with two judges scoring it 57–57 and the other 58–57 in favour of KSI. The fight was promoted as "the biggest internet event in history" and "the biggest amateur boxing match in history". The rematch took place on 9 November 2019 at the Staples Center, Los Angeles, this time as a professional boxing match.. KSI's fight with fellow British YouTuber Joe Weller on 3 February 2018 at the Copper Box Arena in London was a success, drawing 1.6million live viewers, 21million views within a day, and over 25million over the next several days, becoming the biggest white-collar boxing fight. After KSI won the fight and was awarded the YouTube Boxing Championship Belt, he called out the Paul brothers. He initially challenged Logan Paul's younger brother Jake to fight. Jake Paul was initially the one to fight KSI. However, Jake backed down, letting his older brother Logan step in to fight KSI whilst KSI's younger brother Deji Olatunji . KSI took part in the weigh-in wearing a Chloe Bennet mask in an attempt to taunt Logan. For the co-main event, Deji weighed in at 79&nbsp;kg with Paul weighing 82.5&nbsp;kg. On the fight's undercard, JMX was expected to fight TGFBro's Romell Henry, but Henry later pulled out due to injury and was replaced by HalalHam. It was later revealed that JMX would instead be fighting YouTuber and athlete Coach Richard; HalalHam faced off against Jrizzy Jeremy. AnEsonGib fought TGFBro's Jay Swingler on the event's undercard..  The fight was held at the Manchester Arena in Manchester, England. Tickets for the fight went on sale on 22 June after an announcement by KSI on his YouTube channel. General admission tickets started at a price of £30 with the highest level package pricing at £495. They had elected to go with Eventim UK for distribution of sales. Tickets made available priced from £30, £40, £50, £60, £80, £100, £150 and VIP £495. Although the event was jointly promoted by Upload Events, Maverick Media and OP Talent, Upload Events were the lead promoter of the fight. The fight was streamed on pay-per-view on YouTube, via a YouTube channel dedicated to the fight. The pay-per-view was set to cost £6 in the United Kingdom but was raised to £7.50, and $10 in the United States. The pay-per-view prices received negative responses from a number of fans, as KSI's past fight with Joe Weller was streamed on YouTube for free. YouTube personalities True Geordie, Joe Weller and Laurence McKenna commentated on the fight. Iconic ring announcer Michael Buffer announced the fighters. Due to the high profile of the event in the social and online world, and the use of pay-per-view instead of the usual free YouTube streaming, pirate streams of the fight became a concern for promoters. In a video by Jake Paul, he stated that "anyone who is planning on illegally streaming or torrenting the fight won't be able to as employees from Google and YouTube will be taking down and disabling streams all through the night." However, this did not discourage fans from advertising illegal streams in protest against the use of pay-per-view. KSI tried to address the use of pay-per-view via Twitter stating, "The cost of the event itself is on another level to last time . Plus the press conferences, weigh-in and making other content for the new channel, all adds up." After the fight, it emerged that over 1.2 million people watched the fight over pirated Twitch streams, meaning over $12 million in potential pay-per-view revenue was not realized. The purse for the fight is split 50/50. Although official details for it haven't been revealed, there have been estimates of their potential earnings. According to one estimate, the total revenue is believed to be £150million, including lucrative sponsorship deals that the pair signed, with KSI and Logan Paul each receiving up to £75million. Another estimate gives the potential earnings of KSI and Logan Paul at £30million to £40million each, from ticket sales, online views, sponsorship deals, and merchandise sales. However, both KSI and Logan Paul have dismissed these estimates. KSI stated that his earnings are "a high amount, but it's nowhere near £40m" or £20million. YouTube took a 30% share of the pay-per-view revenue, with the remaining 70% split evenly between KSI and Logan Paul, each receiving a 35% share. Logan's share was in turn split with his brother Jake, and Logan estimates that a further 30% of his earnings went towards expenses including administration, production, venues, coaches, travel, accommodation, managers, lawyers, and agents. With the result being a draw, KSI retained the YouTube championship belt. The belt is of red colour with gold motifs. Its design features an eagle with its wings fully spread atop a golden globe with a crown at its centre. The belt was presented to KSI at his previous fight by professional boxer Dereck Chisora. Referee: Gareth Morris Judges: Delilah Ponce, Gino Piccinino and Gareth Morris The main event was contested over 6 rounds 3 minutes each. Both athletes agreed to box in 12oz gloves, which is a size often used for amateur boxing fights between the middleweight and heavyweight divisions. Odds are as of 24 August 2018.. After Jake Paul beat Deji by technical knockout, he called out American singer-songwriter Chris Brown, saying "I know you were supposed to fight Soulja Boy. But I think it is time you got in the ring with someone your own size.”, after the Jake-Deji fight Bugzy Malone performed songs from his new album B. Inspired. The fight was also attended by multiple celebrities such as Jake Wood, Wes Nelson and professional UFC fighter, Jimi Manuwa. The fight inspired PewDiePie to begin a feud and rivalry with Indian record company T-Series over the title of most-subscribed YouTube channel. This online competition became known as PewDiePie vs T-Series. Source:.  The fight and the lead-up to it caught the attention of mainstream media as well as professional boxing promoter Eddie Hearn, and boxers such as Floyd Mayweather, Tyson Fury, Amir Khan and Ricky Hatton. Former UFC middleweight champion Michael Bisping, who trained KSI prior to the match, called the fight "an insulting mockery" to professional boxing and martial arts, stating in the 76th episode of his Believe You Me podcast, "I find it almost insulting to everybody that has dedicated their life to being a fighter. Come up the hard way, been a lifelong boxer or martial artist and then these two come in… they’re almost making a mockery of the sport of boxing and martial arts." Bisping has since removed the episode in question from his YouTube channel. The pre-fight promotional videos uploaded to the official KSI vs Logan channel on YouTube have received nearly 60million online views, including nearly 30million views for the official fight trailers. In the month leading up to the fight, the channel's pre-fight promotional videos drew 28million views, generating earnings up to $112,000. In addition, the promotional diss track music videos from KSI, Logan Paul, Jake Paul and Deji have received about 60million views. The fight sold-out 21,000 tickets for Manchester Arena, in comparison to the 8,000 tickets sold at the Copper Box Arena for the previous KSI vs. Joe Weller fight. The fight generated an estimated live gate revenue of over £2.7million as of 18 September 2018, in addition to over 5million viewers who watched illegal streams on Twitch as of 28 August 2018. The KSI vs Logan Paul boxing match, along with the undercard fights including Deji vs. Jake Paul, was uploaded to YouTube on 31 August 2018, which can now be watched for free. The official KSI vs Logan channel on YouTube has received more than 75million views as of 17 September 2018. The fight generated a total of 1.2million pay-per-view buys worldwide, on YouTube and the KSI vs Logan Paul official website combined, including over 800,000live purchases. This makes it the largest non-professional boxing match of all time. At £7.50 or $10 a view, the pay-per-view revenue is approximately an estimated £million or .