FPSRussia is a popular YouTube and Twitch channel featuring firearms and explosives. The videos feature Kyle Lamar Myers, an American born in Mason, Georgia, playing the role of Dmitri Potapoff, a heavily accented Russian from Moscow. Each video on the channel generally has Myers explaining the characteristics of the weapons he will use in that video , before he demonstrates their abilities on targets such as fruits, drink bottles, zombie targets, and photos of Justin Bieber in his earlier videos. The FPSRussia channel reached the 1-million-subscriber mark in June 2011. As of May 7, 2019, his channel has garnered over 6.5 million subscribers. Myers has used largely varying pieces of equipment along with weapons that have been featured in his videos such as a golden AK-47, an armored troop carrier, a .50 BMG rifle, and a Bofors 40 mm automatic anti-aircraft cannon. Myers ceased producing new videos in 2016.. Due to the success of FPSRussia, Myers opened up a second channel, MoreFPSRussia. Myers collaborated with Epic Meal Time in July 2011. The collaboration has earned over 8.631 million video views on YouTube as of December 18, 2017. Myers' character hosts the live fire section of Machinima.com Prime's web series, The Controller: Medal of Honor Warfighter. On October 29, 2012, Myers had a cameo appearance as his character, Dmitri, in the Call of Duty: Black Ops II live-action trailer directed by Guy Ritchie. After an announcement video in December 2012 and a successful Kickstarter campaign, FPSRussia released "FPS Russia: The Game" on the App Store for iOS devices in March 2013 with developer Zaah. In 2014, FPSRussia was listed on NewMediaRockstars Top 100 Channels, ranked at #78. Since 2010, Myers has been a host on the "Painkiller Already" podcast with several other YouTuber personalities.. On January 6, 2013, Keith Ratliff, a member of the FPSRussia's production team, was found shot dead in his own gun store. Ratliff was responsible for obtaining the firearms used in the videos. Following Ratliff's death, the production of FPSRussia's videos went on hiatus until February 19, 2013. In March 2013, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation said it was still investigating. However, as there have been no official updates since the initial reports following Ratliff's death, the case has become the subject of numerous conspiracy theories.. On March 29, 2013, Myers' Georgia residence was searched by upwards of 40 members of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives alongside officers from the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. The investigators also searched Myers's father's nearby farm, a frequent filming location for FPSRussia. ATF spokesman Richard Coes said the justification for the search was "that was using explosives and getting paid for it via YouTube." According to Myers, the case was originally tried on the state level but it was appealed to the federal courts due to the state's justification for searching his home was that "he was wearing shorts." The Federal courts prosecuted on the grounds that illegal drug possession while owning a firearm is a federal offense. In August 2017, Myers' residence was again raided after Myers was alleged to have received 25 grams of butane hash oil through the mail. Myers was arrested for felony possession of a restricted substance with intent to distribute and 50 of his weapons were confiscated under a federal law that prohibits illegal drug users from possessing firearms. He later pled guilty to Possession with Intent to Distribute Marijuana and Butane Honey Oil, with all other charges dismissed. On June 19, 2019, Myers was sentenced to two years' probation and two months in prison and pay a fine to the amount of $7500. Myers speaks about these matter in YouTube videos. In these YouTube videos he reveals that these charges were a plea deal, he did not have the intent to distribute.