The 2019–20 UEFA Champions League is the 65th season of Europe's premier club football tournament organised by UEFA, and the 28th season since it was renamed from the European Champion Clubs' Cup to the UEFA Champions League. The final will be played at the Atatürk Olympic Stadium in Istanbul, Turkey. The winners of the 2019–20 UEFA Champions League will earn the right to play against the winners of the 2019–20 UEFA Europa League in the 2020 UEFA Super Cup; they will also qualify for the 2020 FIFA Club World Cup in Qatar. They will also automatically qualify for the 2020–21 UEFA Champions League group stage, and if they have already qualified through their league performance, the berth reserved will be given to the champions of the 2019–20 Eredivisie, the 11th-ranked association according to next season's access list. The video assistant referee system will be used in the competition from the play-off round onwards. Liverpool are the defending champions.. A total of 79 teams from 54 of the 55 UEFA member associations participate in the 2019–20 UEFA Champions League . . The schedule of the competition is as follows .. In the qualifying rounds and the play-off round, teams were divided into seeded and unseeded teams based on their 2019 , and then drawn into two-legged home-and-away ties. The losers entered the , except one team who was drawn to receive a bye to the . The second qualifying round was split into two separate sections: Champions Path . The losers from the Champions Path entered the , while the losers from the League Path entered the .. The play-off round was split into two separate sections: Champions Path . The losers from both Champions Path and League Path entered the . From this stage, the video assistant referee will be used.. The draw for the group stage was held on 29 August 2019, 18:00 CEST, at the Grimaldi Forum in Monaco. The 32 teams were drawn into eight groups of four, with the restriction that teams from the same association cannot be drawn against each other. For the draw, the teams were seeded into four pots based on the following principles:Pot 1 contains the Champions League and Europa League title holders, and the champions of the top six associations based on their 2018 . If one or both title holders were one of the champions of the top six associations, the champions of the next highest ranked association. A total of 16 national associations are represented in the group stage. Atalanta are set to make their debut appearance in the group stage.. In the knockout phase, teams play against each other over two legs on a home-and-away basis, except for the one-match final.