Martin Charles Scorsese .. Scorsese was born on November 17, 1942, in New York City's Queens borough. His family moved to Little Italy in Manhattan before he started school. His father, Charles Scorsese, and mother, Catherine Scorsese in 1966, a year after the school was founded..  Scorsese attended New York University's Tisch School of the Arts would cover the full breadth of his career, reportedly using the aging technology deployed in David Fincher's The Curious Case of Benjamin Button. It has since been announced that Scorsese will instead produce, rather than direct the project. On August 10, 2015, it was announced that Scorsese would direct an adaptation of The Devil in the White City, which would star Leonardo DiCaprio and be written by Billy Ray. The project was revived in 2019, when Hulu began developing a series based on the book. DiCaprio and Scorsese will executive produce the project along with Stacey Sher, Rick Yorn, Emma Koskoff, and Jennifer Davisson. Paramount Television will produce. Variety reported in January 2016 that Scorsese is also producing a biopic based on the life of classical pianist Byron Janis, with Peter Glanz writing a screenplay based on Janis' own book, Chopin and Beyond: My Extraordinary Life in Music and the Paranormal. Paramount Pictures will distribute the film. On April 29, 2016, it was announced that Scorsese was in early talks to direct The General, a film based on the life of George Washington, in which he hoped to get Leonardo DiCaprio on board. He has also expressed interest in directing an adaptation of Home, the 2008 novel by Marilynne Robinson. In September 2017, Scorsese and DiCaprio were reported to be developing a biopic in which DiCaprio will portray President Theodore Roosevelt.. Scorsese has been married five times. His first wife was Laraine Marie Brennan; they have a daughter, Catherine. He married the writer Julia Cameron in 1976; they have a daughter , but the marriage lasted only a year. The divorce was acrimonious and served as the basis of Cameron's first feature, the dark comedy God's Will, which also starred their daughter, Domenica. Their daughter also had a small role in Cape Fear using the name Domenica Scorsese and has continued to act, write, direct, and produce. Scorsese was married to actress Isabella Rossellini from 1979 to their divorce in 1983. He then married producer Barbara De Fina in 1985; their marriage ended in divorce in 1991, as well. From 1989 until 1997, he dated actress Illeana Douglas. Scorsese has been married to Helen Schermerhorn Morris since 1999. They have a daughter, Francesca, who appeared in The Departed and The Aviator. He lives and works in New York City. Scorsese has commented, "I'm a lapsed Catholic. But I am Roman Catholic; there's no way out of it." In reference to one of his divorces, Scorsese once told Ebert, "I am living in sin, and I will go to hell because of it." In 2010, The Wall Street Journal reported that Scorsese was supporting the David Lynch Foundation's initiative to help 10,000 military veterans overcome posttraumatic stress disorder through Transcendental Meditation, and Scorsese has publicly discussed his own practice of TM. In 2009, Scorsese signed a petition in support of director Roman Polanski, calling for his release from custody after he was detained in relation to his 1977 sexual abuse charges. Scorsese was recognized as an Italian citizen by jus sanguinis in 2018.. In the 2012 Sight & Sound polls, held every ten years to select the greatest films of all time, contemporary directors were asked to select ten films of their choice. Scorsese, however, picked 12, which are listed below, in alphabetical order: 2001: A Space Odyssey . In 1997, Scorsese received the AFI Life Achievement Award. In 1998, the American Film Institute placed three Scorsese films on their list of the greatest American movies: Raging Bull at #24, Taxi Driver at #47, and Goodfellas at #94. For their tenth-anniversary edition of the list, Raging Bull was moved to #4, Taxi Driver was moved to #52, and Goodfellas was moved to #92. In 2001, the American Film Institute placed two Scorsese films on their list of the most "heart-pounding movies" in American cinema: Taxi Driver at #22 and Raging Bull at #51. At a ceremony in Paris, France, on January 5, 2005, Martin Scorsese was awarded the French Legion of Honour in recognition of his contribution to cinema. On February 8, 2006, at the 48th Annual Grammy Awards, Scorsese was awarded the Grammy Award for Best Long Form Music Video for No Direction Home. In 2007, Scorsese was listed among Time magazine's 100 Most Influential People in The World. In August 2007, Scorsese was named the second-greatest director of all time in a poll by Total Film magazine, in front of Steven Spielberg and behind Alfred Hitchcock. In 2007, Scorsese was honored by the National Italian American Foundation Jack Valenti. Scorsese received his award from Mary Margaret Valenti, Valenti's widow. Certain pieces of Scorsese's film related material and personal papers are contained in the Wesleyan University Cinema Archives, to which scholars and media experts from around the world may have full access. On September 11, 2007, the Kennedy Center Honors committee, which recognizes career excellence and cultural influence, named Scorsese as one of the honorees for the year. On June 17, 2008, the American Film Institute placed two of Scorsese's films on the AFI's 10 Top 10 list: Raging Bull at #1 for the Sports genre and Goodfellas at #2 for the Gangster genre. In 2013, the staff of Entertainment Weekly voted Mean Streets the seventh greatest film ever made. On January 17, 2010, at the 67th Golden Globe Awards, Scorsese was the recipient of the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award. On September 18, 2011, at the 63rd Primetime Emmy Awards, Scorsese won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing for a Drama Series for his work on the series premiere of Boardwalk Empire. In 2011, Scorsese received an honorary doctorate from the National Film School in Lodz. At the awards ceremony he said, "I feel like I'm a part of this school and that I attended it," paying tribute to the films of Wajda, Munk, Has, Polanski and Skolimowski. King Missile wrote "Martin Scorsese" in his honor. On February 12, 2012, at the 65th British Academy Film Awards, Scorsese was the recipient of the BAFTA Academy Fellowship Award. On September 16, 2012, Scorsese won two for Outstanding Directing for Nonfiction Programming and Outstanding Nonfiction Special for his work on the documentary George Harrison: Living in the Material World. In 2013, the National Endowment for the Humanities selected Scorsese for the Jefferson Lecture, the U.S. federal government's highest honor for achievement in the humanities. He was the first filmmaker chosen for the honor. His lecture, delivered on April 1, 2013, at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts was titled "Persistence of Vision: Reading the Language of Cinema". Martin Scorsese was awarded the Polish Gold Medal for Merit to Culture – Gloria Artis on April 11, 2017, in recognition of his contribution to Polish cinema. Scorsese has also garnered favorable responses from numerous film giants, who include Ingmar Bergman, Frank Capra, Jean-Luc Godard, Werner Herzog, Elia Kazan, Akira Kurosawa, David Lean, Michael Powell, Satyajit Ray, and François Truffaut. He was awarded an Honorary Doctorate from the University of Oxford on June 20, 2018.. Scorsese is known for his frequent use of slow motion, for example, in Who's That Knocking at My Door . He has also been known for his liberal usage of profanity, dark humor, and violence.. * Who's That Knocking at My Door . Scorsese often casts the same actors in his films, particularly Robert De Niro, who has collaborated with Scorsese for nine feature films and one short film. Included are the three films . Others who have appeared in multiple Scorsese films include Daniel Day-Lewis, who had become very reclusive to the Hollywood scene, Alec Baldwin, Willem Dafoe, Ben Kingsley, Jude Law, Liam Neeson, Emily Mortimer, John C. Reilly, David Carradine, Barbara Hershey, Kevin Corrigan, Jake Hoffman, Frank Sivero, Ray Winstone and Nick Nolte. Before their deaths, Scorsese's parents, Charles Scorsese and Catherine Scorsese, appeared in bit parts, walk-ons or supporting roles, most notably in Goodfellas. For his crew, Scorsese frequently worked with editor Thelma Schoonmaker, cinematographers Michael Ballhaus, Robert Richardson, Michael Chapman and Rodrigo Prieto, screenwriters Paul Schrader, Mardik Martin, and John Logan, costume designer Sandy Powell, production designer Dante Ferretti, music producer Robbie Robertson, and composers Howard Shore and Elmer Bernstein. Schoonmaker, Richardson, Powell, and Ferretti have all won Academy Awards in their respective categories on collaborations with Scorsese. Elaine and Saul Bass, the latter being Hitchcock's frequent title designer, designed the opening credits for Goodfellas, The Age of Innocence, Casino and Cape Fear. He was the executive producer of the film Brides, which was directed by Pantelis Voulgaris and starred Victoria Haralabidou, Damian Lewis, Steven Berkoff, and Kosta Sommer.. Under Scorsese's direction, actors have continually received nominations from the major competitive acting awards . 70 nominations total: 22 Academy Award, 21 BAFTA Award, 27 Golden Globe Award 25 Best Leading Actor, 7 Best Leading Actress, 12 Best Supporting Actor, 24 Best Supporting Actress, 2 Best Newcomer. 