Jorge Masvidal is an American mixed martial artist competing in the UFC's welterweight division. He won the UFC BMF title, which was created specially for his fight against Nate Diaz. A professional since 2003, he has also competed for Bellator, Strikeforce, Shark Fights, and World Victory Road. He holds the record for the fastest knockout in UFC history, at 5 seconds. As of July 8, 2019, he is #3 in the .. Masvidal was born and raised in Miami, to a Cuban father and Peruvian mother. According to Masvidal, his father left Cuba in a self-made raft when he was young, ending up at Virgin Islands. Masvidal's father was later imprisoned for more than twenty years for manslaughter and drug trafficking. Masvidal was often involved in street fighting from a young age. There are recorded videos of his fights on YouTube defeating Kimbo Slice's protégé "Ray." Masvidal later competed in wrestling at St. Brendan High School, but failed to stay eligible because of his grades, and then began training in mixed martial arts..  Masvidal won his kickboxing debut by unanimous decision on April 11, 2003, at Fast and Fearless event. His most high-profile kickboxing victory came in the main event of the Absolute Fighting Championships XII event held on April 30, against current UFC competitor and The Ultimate Fighter 5 contestant Joe Lauzon. Masvidal won via technical knock out in the second round. Masvidal garnered a 3–0 record in the now-defunct BodogFIGHT promotion, including decision victories over Keith Wisniewski, Steve Berger and a head kick knockout of PRIDE Fighting Championships and UFC veteran Yves Edwards. Masvidal was signed by Bellator and entered their lightweight tournament in April 2009. Masvidal won his first fight via TKO in the first round. However, he was defeated in the semi-finals by Toby Imada at Bellator 5, who won via inverted triangle choke submission in the third round. This upset loss was acknowledged by Sherdog and MMA Junkie as Submission of the Year. Masvidal faced and defeated Eric Reynolds at Bellator 12 in a 160&nbsp;lb Catchweight bout via rear-naked choke submission. He was rumored to be fighting again but was released by the organization. Masvidal moved up to the welterweight division to fight Paul Daley at Shark Fights 13 in Amarillo, Texas in September 2010. The bout was later made a catchweight of 171.75&nbsp;lbs. after Daley failed to make weight. Daley defeated Masvidal via unanimous decision. After this performance, Masvidal signed with Strikeforce. Masvidal returned to Strikeforce in early 2011, facing Billy Evangelista at Strikeforce: Feijao vs. Henderson. He won the fight via unanimous decision. Masvidal then fought former Elite XC Lightweight Champion K.J. Noons in a number one contender's bout. Masvidal won at the end of the first round with a high kick. Masvidal faced Gilbert Melendez for the Strikeforce Lightweight Championship at Strikeforce: Melendez vs. Masvidal on December 17, 2011, at the Valley View Casino Center in San Diego, CA. He lost the fight via unanimous decision. Following the championship bout, Masvidal fought Justin Wilcox at Strikeforce: Rockhold vs. Kennedy on July 14, 2012. He won the fight via split decision belt. Masvidal won the fight via technical knockout via doctor stoppage between rounds three and four when the cageside physician determined a cut over Diaz's right eye rendered him unable to continue. While the decision was controversial among fight fans, Brian Suttere, a Mayo Clinic-affiliated physician, stated that he agreed with the decision.. Absolute Fighting Championships*AFC Welterweight Championship 2003 NAGA Nationals Lightweight: Second Place2003 FGA Southeast Challenge II Lightweight Champion2004 NAGA Chicago Pro Am: Second Place. | Win |align=center|35–13 |Nate Diaz |TKO | AFC 3 | | align=center| 1 | align=center| 3:55 | Fort Lauderdale, Florida, United States |