NXT TakeOver: WarGames in the first-ever women's WarGames match..  NXT TakeOver is a series of professional wrestling shows that began on May 29, 2014, as the WWE NXT held their second WWE Network exclusive live broadcast billed as NXT TakeOver. In subsequent months, the "TakeOver" moniker became the brand used by WWE for all of their NXT live WWE Network specials. The card included matches that resulted from scripted storylines, where wrestlers portray villains, heroes, or to build tension and culminate in a wrestling match or series of matches, with results predetermined by WWE's writers on the NXT brand. Storylines are produced on the NXT television program. On the October 30 episode of NXT, a brawl occurred with all the women on the roster after the conclusion of WWE Women's Tag Team Championship match. This prompted the NXT general manager William Regal to schedule the first ever women's WarGames match with Rhea Ripley and NXT Women's Champion Shayna Baszler being captain for their respective teams. On November 6 episode of The Bump, Ripley chose Candice LeRae and Tegan Nox, while Baszler chose Bianca Belair and Io Shirai. On the same night on NXT, Ripley chose Mia Yim as the final pick for her team after Yim saved her team from a brawl, following the conclusion of a match between Baszler and Dakota Kai. On the November 13 episode of NXT, a ladder match between Yim and Shirai was held to determine which team would get the WarGames advantage. NXT UK Women’s Champion Kay Lee Ray interfered, allowing Shirai to win, and subsequently joined Baszler's team. However, during the WarGames Pre-Show, Yim was attacked backstage by an unknown person and was unable to compete in the match. As a result, Ripley had to chose Kai as her replacement. On the October 30 episode of NXT, NXT Tag Team Champions Bobby Fish and Kyle O'Reilly defeated Matt Riddle and Keith Lee. Afterward, The Undisputed Era proceeded to attacked Lee and Riddle, before Tommaso Ciampa appeared. The following week on NXT, a men's WarGames match was scheduled between Team Ciampa against The Undisputed Era. On the November 13 episode of NXT, following a match between Lee and Roderick Strong, The Undisputed Era attacked Ciampa and Lee until Dominik Dijakovic appeared. Dijakovic offered to be the fourth member of the team, which Ciampa accepted. Later that night, Riddle left Ciampa’s team after being scheduled to face Finn Bálor. On the November 20 episode of NXT, Cole defeated Dijakovic in a ladder match to gain the WarGames advantage. On the November 13 episode of NXT, Finn Bálor insulted the NXT roster as “all boys who can't take a beating”, specifically mentioning Johnny Gargano and Matt Riddle. Riddle attacked Bálor, who retreated. Later that night, Riddle assisted his then-WarGames partners Keith Lee and Tommaso Ciampa against their scheduled opponents, The Undisputed Era. However, Bálor appeared and attacked Riddle. As a result, a match between the two was scheduled for TakeOver. On the October 16 episode of NXT, Pete Dunne performed a Finger Snap on Killian Dain, before Dunne's scheduled match against Damian Priest. Priest would later defeat Dunne after a low blow. A rematch between Dunne and Priest was scheduled on the November 6 episode of NXT, where Dunne would win by submission. Following the match, Dain attacked both Dunne and Priest. On the November 13 episode of NXT, a match between Dunne and Dain was scheduled on the night. However, Priest attacked Dain and subsequently, a brawl occurred between the three. On November 19, a triple threat match between Dunne, Priest, and Dain was scheduled for TakeOver, with the winner receiving an NXT Championship match against champion Adam Cole at Survivor Series the following night. On November 22, a match between Isaiah "Swerve" Scott and Angel Garza was scheduled for the TakeOver pre-show.. Isaiah "Swerve" Scott faced Angel Garza. Garza performed the "Wing Clipper" on Scott to win. Previously, Mia Yim was attacked by an unknown assailant and was ruled unable to compete in WarGames. Rhea Ripley chose Dakota Kai as her replacement. The first match was the WarGames match involving Team Ripley in WarGames. Ciampa and Strong began. After five minutes, O'Reilly entered, being followed by Dijakovic, Fish, Lee and Cole. Ciampa pushed Cole through a table against the barrier. Kevin Owens was revealed as the unknown partner and entered last. Owens performed a Stunner on Cole but Strong voided the pinfall at a two count. Cole performed a Panama Sunrise on the steel platform on Owens. Dijakovic performed a Chokeslam through a table on Strong, Owens performed a Frog Splash through a table on O'Reilly and Lee performed a Super Spirit Bomb through a table on Fish. Ciampa performed an Air Raid Crash off the cage through two tables on Cole to win.. The event received critical acclaim among wrestling fans and journalists. Larry Csonka and Kevin Pantoja of 411mania.com gave TakeOver: WarGames a score of 8 out of 10. Csonka stated "NXT Takeover WarGames 2019 was an overall great show, with the two WarGames matches delivering and offering up nothing bad on the card, which flew by at just two-hours including the pre-show, and booking that set up a lot of matches for the future." Dave Meltzer of the Wrestling Observer Newsletter awarded the Scott vs. Garza match on the kickoff show 2.75 out of 5 stars, the women's WarGames match 4.25 stars, the triple threat match featuring Pete Dunne, Damien Priest & Killian Dain 3.5 stars, the singles match between Matt Riddle & Finn Balor 4 stars and the men's WarGames match 4.5 stars. Brent Brookhouse and Jack Crosby of CBSSports.com gave grades of A and A- respectively for both the WarGames matches, a B for the triple threat match between Pete Dunne, Killian Dain and Damien Priest, a B+ for Matt Riddle vs. Finn Balor and a grade of A- for the overall show stating "Saturday's TakeOver: WarGames 3 card from Chicago -- one night before Survivor Series at Allstate Arena -- delivered big on all fronts. When the main complaints coming out of a show mainly focus on the two eponymous matches being a bit much for a single night and one very good match going a few minutes too long, you know the product delivered what NXT fans have come to expect from TakeOver events." Brian Mazique of Forbes.com gave grades of B+ for the pre-show match between Isaiah "Swerve" Scott & Angel Garza, an A+ and A respectively for both the WarGames Matches, an A for Pete Dunne vs. Killian Dain vs. Damien Priest, a B for Matt Riddle vs. Finn Balor and gave the overall show an A, stating "War Games delivered. The fact that it was so interesting without a title on the line made it all the more impressive.". After the show, in a Facebook video alongside Triple H, Rhea Ripley selected Candice LeRae, Bianca Belair, Io Shirai and NXT UK superstar Toni Storm as part of the NXT team for the women's 5-on-5-on-5 survivor series match. During the Survivor Series kickoff show the following day, Shawn Michaels announced Tommaso Ciampa, Keith Lee, Damian Priest, Matt Riddle, and WWE United Kingdom Championship Walter as part of the NXT team for the men's 5-on-5-on-5 survivor series match. At the event, NXT won brand supremacy over Raw and SmackDown after Ripley's team, Roderick Strong, and Shayna Baszler each won their interbrand matches, while Lio Rush retained the NXT Cruiserweight Championship against representatives from RAW and SmackDown; in one of the three non-interbrand matches on the card, Adam Cole retained the NXT Championship against Pete Dunne. On WWE Raw the following Monday, as part of a larger "town hall" discussing Raw's performance during Survivor Series, Seth Rollins chastised Kevin Owens for participating in the WarGames match with Team Ciampa, questioning his loyalty to Raw and mockingly referring to him as "Mr. NXT". In response, Owens performed a stunner and challenged him to a match later on the show. The match would end in a disqualification win for Owens after former NXT Tag Team Champions AOP celebrated their brand's victory over Raw and SmackDown at Survivor Series only for The Undisputed Era to interrupt. Cole stated that the only reason why NXT brand were dominant was due to their stable and not because of the roster. Cole also mentioned that the roster did absolutely nothing on the weekend. Ciampa reminded Cole that it was his team that defeated The Undisputed Era at WarGames and warned them that their days of holding their championship belts were numbered, with Ciampa focusing on Cole's NXT Championship. Finn Bálor then interrupted and stated that Ciampa was standing in his way. In response, Ciampa issued a challenge to Balor, which the latter agreed. During the match, Bálor defeated Ciampa, due to interference by Cole. Following the match, Bálor performed a Pele Kick on Cole. Following Dakota Kai's ambush on Tegan Nox at WarGames, Kai faced Candice LeRae on the November 27 episode of NXT, where Kai attacked LeRae with Nox's knee brace, thus LeRae won by disqualification. As Kai attempted to attack LeRae with the chair, Ripley came out to LeRae's aid. Later that night, Ripley had a face-to-face confrontation with Shayna Baszler, and congratulating her for defeating Becky Lynch and Bayley at Survivor Series. Ripley then reminded Baszler that her team defeated Baszler's team at WarGames and then issued a challenge to Baszler for the NXT Women's Championship.