José Pedro Balmaceda Pascal .. Pascal was born in Santiago, Chile. His mother is a child psychologist and his father, José Balmaceda, a fertility doctor; his younger brother Lucas Balmaceda is an actor in Chile. Pascal has Spanish roots from a Basque grandfather and Majorcan grandmother. Pascal's parents were Allende supporters and were involved in the opposition movement against the US-backed military dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet in Chile around the time of Pascal's birth. Because of this, soon after his birth, Pascal's family was granted political asylum in Denmark. The family ultimately moved to the United States, and Pascal was raised in Orange County, California and San Antonio, Texas. Pascal was involved in competitive swimming during his early years and took part in the state championships in Texas at the age of 11, but immediately stopped competitive swimming after getting into drama class. He studied acting at the Orange County School of the Arts and New York University's Tisch School of the Arts.. Pascal has appeared in several television series, including Buffy the Vampire Slayer, The Good Wife, Homeland, The Mentalist, and Graceland. He appeared as kidnapper Reggie in the Law & Order: Criminal Intent episode "Weeping Willow". He was cast in the pilot for the 2011 Wonder Woman television adaptation, but the show was never picked up. In June 2013, he was cast as Oberyn Martell in the fourth season of the HBO series Game of Thrones. Pascal stated that he was a huge fan of Game of Thrones before being cast as Oberyn and was ecstatic to join. In 2015, Pascal was cast in the role of U.S. DEA agent Javier Peña in the Netflix original show, Narcos. In the movie Bloodsucking Bastards . He was cast as Maxwell Lord alongside Gal Gadot and Chris Pine in the DC Extended Universe film Wonder Woman 1984, directed by Patty Jenkins; the film is scheduled to be released in 2020.. Pascal is a native speaker of English and is fluent in Spanish. He has been living in New York City for over 20 years.