'The Mandalorian' is an American space Western web television series that premiered on Disney+ on November 12, 2019. Set in the Star Wars universe, the series takes place five years after the events of Return of the Jedi and follows a Mandalorian bounty hunter beyond the reaches of the New Republic. Jon Favreau serves as creator, head writer, and showrunner, as well as , alongside Dave Filoni, Kathleen Kennedy, and Colin Wilson. The show stars Pedro Pascal in the title role. There will be eight episodes in the first season, and a second season has been ordered.. Pedro Pascal as Dyn Jarren / The Mandalorian: A lone gunfighter and bounty hunter, who is sometimes referred to as "Mando" by the people he meets. Pascal has described his character as being Clint Eastwood-esque with advanced combat skills and of "questionable moral character". The following actors received co-starring billing in the main-on-end credits of the episodes they appeared in.Carl Weathers as Greef Karga, the leader of a bounty hunter guild who hires the Mandalorian to track a valuable assetWerner Herzog as The Client, an unnamed man with Stormtrooper bodyguards who arranges for the Mandalorian to track a valuable assetOmid Abtahi as Dr. Pershing, a scientist working for the ClientNick Nolte as the voice of Kuiil, an Ugnaught moisture farmerTaika Waititi as the voice of IG-11, a naive bounty hunting droid, who processes conversations in a precise and literal mannerGina Carano as Cara Dune, a former Rebel Shock Trooper-turned-mercenary who fought in the civil war for the Rebel AllianceGiancarlo Esposito as Moff Gideon, a former governor under the Empire whose life changed after the Rebels destroyed the second Death StarEmily Swallow as the Armorer, a Mandalorian woman who forges the Mandalorian's new armorThe Child, performed by puppeteers: A fifty-year-old bounty, with the appearance of a small toddler because of how his species ages. He is of the same species as Yoda. The Child is found and protected by the Mandalorian while being targeted by other bounty hunters.Horatio Sanz as Mythrol, one of the Mandalorian's bountiesJulia Jones as Omera, a farmer on SorganIsla Farris as Winta, Omera's daughterAsif Ali as Caben, a farmer on SorganEugene Cordero as Stoke, a farmer on Sorgan Yet to appear:Bill BurrMark Boone JuniorMing-Na Wen as Fennec Shand, an assassin who crosses paths with the Mandalorian. Additionally, members of the 501st Legion were called in as stormtrooper extras. Series creator/writer/showrunner/producer, Jon Favreau, features in a cameo appearance as the infantry Mandalorian named Paz Vizla..  A live-action Star Wars TV series entered production in early 2009, with over 50 scripts written by 2012, but they were deemed too expensive to produce due to their complex content. Its title was to have been Star Wars: Underworld. In January 2013, following the 2012 sale of Lucasfilm to The Walt Disney Company, then-president of the ABC television network Paul Lee spoke to the current status of the series commenting that "We'd love to do something with Lucasfilm, we're not sure what yet. We haven't even sat down with them. We're going to look at closed and it just closed. It's definitely going to be part of the conversation." In June 2014, more details regarding the series were revealed, including that Boba Fett would have appeared. On November 9, 2017, Walt Disney Company chairman and CEO Bob Iger, while on a quarterly earnings call with investors, announced that Disney and Lucasfilm were developing a new live-action Star Wars television series for Disney's then-unnamed upcoming streaming service. On February 6, 2018, it was reported that Iger had revealed during another financial report conference call with investors that multiple Star Wars live-action series were actually in development by Disney saying, "We are developing not just one, but a few Star Wars series specifically for the Disney direct-to-consumer app. We've mentioned that and we are close to being able to reveal at least one of the entities that is developing that for us. Because the deal isn't completely closed, we can't be specific about that. I think you'll find the level of talent ... on the television front will be rather significant as well." On March 8, 2018, Lucasfilm announced Jon Favreau as the writer and executive producer of the forthcoming series. In May 2018, Favreau stated that half of the scripts for the first season had been completed. On October 3, Favreau announced that the series had been titled The Mandalorian and revealed the show's central premise. The following day, it was revealed that additional executive producers would include Dave Filoni, Kathleen Kennedy, and Colin Wilson with Karen Gilchrist acting as a co-executive producer. Filoni was also expected to direct the series' first episode with additional directors including Taika Waititi, Bryce Dallas Howard, Rick Famuyiwa, and Deborah Chow. On December 19, it was announced that Ludwig Göransson would compose the musical score for the series. On July 12, 2019, during the press release of The Lion King, Favreau revealed that he had written scripts for the second season and that pre-production was underway. Favreau plans to direct an episode of the second season, and stated that he was too busy with the production of The Lion King to direct any of the series' first season. In an interview with Pascal, the Mandalorian's name was revealed to be "Dyn Jarren". In November 2018, it was announced that Pedro Pascal, Gina Carano, and Nick Nolte had been cast in starring roles. After meeting with Favreau, Pascal initially thought he would be playing Boba Fett. On December 12, 2018, it was announced that Giancarlo Esposito, Carl Weathers, Emily Swallow, Omid Abtahi, and Werner Herzog had joined the main cast. On March 21, 2019, Taika Waititi was revealed to be recording a voice for the series, speculated to be bounty hunter droid IG-88, but which turned out to be a new character named IG-11. Footage shown at in April 2019 revealed that Bill Burr and Mark Boone Junior were in the series, with Burr portraying an outlaw. At the D23 Expo in August, it was revealed Ming-Na Wen would appear in the series. Julia Jones's casting was announced in September. Principal photography for the first season began during the first week of October 2018 in Southern California. On October 19, George Lucas visited the set of the series as a birthday surprise for Favreau; it was later revealed that Lucas had some level of involvement in creating the show. On October 25, it was reported that police were investigating the grand theft of several unspecified items from The Mandalorian set at the Manhattan Beach Studios campus in Manhattan Beach, California. Filming for the first season wrapped on February 27, 2019. Film directors Dave Filoni, who is mostly renown for his work on other Star Wars projects, and Bryce Dallas Howard were given individual freedom on directing their episodes, which was surprising to Howard's father Ron Howard, who directed Solo: A Star Wars Story. Visual effects studio Industrial Light & Magic, a subsidiary of Lucasfilm, opened a new division in November 2018 targeted for streaming and episodic television called ILM TV. Based in London with support from the company's locations in San Francisco, Vancouver, and Singapore, it is expected that the new division will work extensively on live-action Star Wars television series, starting with The Mandalorian. Unreal Engine, a game engine developed by Epic Games, is used to create the digital backgrounds. It makes the rendering of the visual effects faster than would normally be possible for a live-action series, and Favreau said the technology can be applied to a variety of challenges. So rather than using sketches on a whiteboard to map out scenes, the storyboarding was done on the game engine.. The Mandalorian premiered on the streaming service Disney+ on November 12, 2019 in the United States, and is available in 4K HDR. On October 4, 2018, the first promotional image from the series was released, featuring a Mandalorian with a rifle. About a week later, Favreau released a photo through his official Instagram account featuring a rifle with a two-pronged barrel, an apparent callback to Boba Fett's weapon in The Star Wars Holiday Special. Jon Favreau, Dave Filoni, and the main cast hosted a panel for The Mandalorian at Star Wars Celebration Chicago on April 14, 2019, where the first footage premiered to fans in attendance. The first official poster and trailer were released at the D23 Expo on August 23, 2019. A second and final trailer was released on October 28, 2019. On November 11, a sneak peek was released during Monday Night Football. Disney+ releases The Mandalorian episodes on a weekly basis starting from November 12 2019. The first two episodes were released only a few days apart on November 12 and November 15, 2019 respectively..  On Rotten Tomatoes, the series holds an approval rating of 89% with an average rating of 7.8/10, based on 151 reviews. The site's consensus reads: "Action-packed and expertly crafted -- if at times a bit too withholding -- The Mandalorian is a welcome addition to the Star Wars universe that benefits greatly from the cuteness of its cargo". On Metacritic, it has a weighted average score of 69 out of 100 based on reviews from 25 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews". Zaki Hasan of the San Francisco Chronicle said the show "in essence allows the franchise to take a mulligan with Boba Fett. Take the look, take that ineffable 'cool,' and transfer it over to an entirely new character who offers an untouched canvas, while giving the audience something that feels familiar." He added, "Three episodes in, that’s really all The Mandalorian is: a feeling. A good feeling, mind you, but rather than any specific storytelling quality, it’s that feeling you’re talking about. The visual effects, the sound effects, the overall look of the thing is all bang-on. This is a polished production that shows off every cent of its feature film budget on every frame of its run time." Writing for The Ringer, Micah Peter said, "The Mandalorian may already be difficult to care about as something more than an installment that exists solely to set up the next installment. But there are still many enjoyable things about it, and also it’s a Disney show with spaceships and giant sea slugs, so it doesn’t need to be Citizen Kane. It might, however, be the next great TV Western." For the week of Nov. 10-16, The Mandalorian — the first live-action series in the Star Wars universe — notched nearly 40 million “demand expressions” according to research firm Parrot Analytics. Within four days of its release, The Mandalorian had stronger U.S. demand compared to four of 2019’s biggest streaming originals: Netflix's The Umbrella Academy, When They See Us, The Dark Crystal: Age of Resistance, and Amazon Prime Video's Good Omens. TV Time, a popular app allowing users to track shows and movies they are watching , stated that double the number of people compared to last week are interested in The Mandalorian, and noted that it had the largest gain of any TV Show. Much of the social media reaction has been to the show's breakout character, a 50-year old "infant" of Yoda's species that The Mandalorian initially takes for a bounty but ends up becoming its de facto guardian in order to protect it after it has shown to have the powers of The Force. The character has been nicknamed "Baby Yoda", a misnomer since Yoda himself died of old age in Return of the Jedi before the events of the series. The unexpected popularity of "Baby Yoda" led to an explosion of merchandise for the Christmas and holiday season, which quickly sold out.. In November 2019, Walt Disney Studios chief creative officer Alan Horn stated that, if The Mandalorian is successful, a film featuring the character could be developed.