The tenth season of The Walking Dead, an American post-apocalyptic horror television series on AMC premiered on October 6, 2019. The second half of the season is set to premiere on February 23, 2020. Developed for television by Frank Darabont, the series is based on the eponymous series of comic books by Robert Kirkman, Tony Moore, and Charlie Adlard. The executive producers are Kirkman, David Alpert, Scott M. Gimple, Angela Kang, Greg Nicotero, Joseph Incaprera, Denise Huth, and Gale Anne Hurd, with Kang as showrunner for the second consecutive season. This season adapts material from issue #145 onward of the comic book series and focuses on the group's preparation and war against the Whisperers. Several months after the massacre during the community's fair done by Alpha , the season focuses on the united communities as they initiate a fight in order to end the threat of the Whisperers. The tenth season is the final season for series regular Danai Gurira, who has portrayed Michonne since the third season.. The tenth season features nineteen series regulars overall. Ryan Hurst, Eleanor Matsuura, Cooper Andrews, Nadia Hilker, Cailey Fleming, Cassady McClincy, and Lauren Ridloff were all promoted to series regular status, after previously having recurring roles. Hurst is added to the opening credits, while the rest are credited as "also starring". Norman Reedus as Daryl Dixon, a southern redneck and Rick's former right-hand man. He is a skilled hunter and a former recruiter for Alexandria. Danai Gurira as Michonne, a katana-wielding warrior and Rick's former romantic partner. She is also adoptive mother to Judith and mother to her and Rick's child. Melissa McBride as Carol Peletier, a survivor who has overcome several traumas, is a skilled and ingenious fighter, and now resides at Alexandria. She is also ex-wife to Ezekiel. Christian Serratos as Rosita Espinosa, a pragmatic member of the group who is mother to her and Siddiq's child. She is also in a relationship with Gabriel. Josh McDermitt as Eugene Porter, an intelligent survivor who has overcome his fear of walkers. He also fell in love with Rosita. Seth Gilliam as Gabriel Stokes, a priest and head of the council of Alexandria who has reconciled his beliefs with what needs to be done to survive. He is in a relationship with Rosita. Ross Marquand as Aaron, a former recruiter from Alexandria who lost his arm in an accident and adoptive father to Gracie. Khary Payton as Ezekiel, the charismatic former leader of the Kingdom and ex-husband to Carol. Ryan Hurst as Beta, the second-in-command of the Whisperers. Samantha Morton as Alpha, the leader of the Whisperers, a mysterious group of survivors who wear the skins of walkers to mask their presence and the main antagonist of the season. Jeffrey Dean Morgan as Negan, the reformed former leader of the Saviors who is incarcerated at Alexandria. He formed a parental bond with Michonne's adoptive daughter, Judith. Callan McAuliffe as Alden, a former member of the Saviors who resides at the Hilltop and now vows a retaliation against the Whisperers. He is also Enid's former love interest. Avi Nash as Siddiq, a doctor for Alexandria who is the father to his and Rosita's child. He is suffering from PTSD due to being a key witness to Alpha's killings of several members of his group. Eleanor Matsuura as Yumiko, Magna's girlfriend who's a proficient archer. Cooper Andrews as Jerry, a former resident of the Kingdom and Ezekiel's right-hand man who is in a relationship with Nabila. Nadia Hilker as Magna, the feisty former leader of a small group of roaming survivors. Cailey Fleming as Judith Grimes, the daughter of Lori Grimes and Shane Walsh, and adopted daughter of Rick and Michonne. Cassady McClincy as Lydia, Alpha's daughter and former Whisperer, who now resides in Alexandria. She is also Henry's former love interest. Lauren Ridloff as Connie, a deaf former member of Magna's group who forms a close bond with Daryl. Lindsley Register as Laura, a former lieutenant of the Saviors who is a member of the council of Alexandria. Kenric Green as Scott, a supply runner in Alexandria. Mandi Christine Kerr as Barbara, a resident of Alexandria. Tamara Austin as Nora, a member of the council of Alexandria and Michonne's friend. Jennifer Riker as Mrs. Robinson, a resident and gardener of Alexandria. Anabelle Holloway as Gracie, the adoptive daughter of Aaron. Antony Azor as Rick "R.J." Grimes Jr., the son of Rick and Michonne. Juan Javier Cardenas as Dante, Siddiq's wise-cracking medical assistant and a spy for the Whisperers. Jerri Tubbs as Margo, a former member of the Highwaymen who resents Lydia. David Shae as Alfred, a former member of the Highwaymen and Margo's friend. Dan Fogler as Luke, a former music teacher who has come to appreciate safety in numbers. Angel Theory as Kelly, Connie's protective sister who has a gradual hearing loss. John Finn as Earl Sutton, the Hilltop's blacksmith and former husband to Tammy. Nadine Marissa as Nabila, a former resident and gardener of the Kingdom and Jerry's wife. Karen Ceesay as Bertie, a resident of the Hilltop. James Chen as Kal, a protector and guardian of the Hilltop. Anthony Lopez as Oscar, a resident of the Hilltop. Gustavo Gomez as Marco, a supply runner of the Hilltop. Kerry Cahill as Dianne, one of Ezekiel's top soldiers and a skilled archer. Jackson Pace as Gage, a resident of the Hilltop who now resents Lydia over the deaths of his friends. Sydney Park as Cyndie, a young woman who is the leader of the Oceanside community. Avianna Mynhier as Rachel Ward, a teenage member of Oceanside, who represents her community. Thora Birch as Gamma / Mary, a member of the Whisperers who is very protective of Alpha. Kevin Carroll as Virgil, a survivor who is looking for his family. Matt Lintz as Henry, the adopted son of Carol and Ezekiel who was killed by Alpha in the ninth season, appears in Carol's hallucinations. He is also Lydia's former love interest.. In February 2019, the series was renewed for a tenth season. Filming began in May 2019. Andrew Lincoln expressed interest in directing an episode for season 10, however, he was not able to due to scheduling conflicts. Michael Cudlitz, who directed an episode in season 9, returned to direct the fourth and seventh episodes of season 10. Production for season 10 was completed in November 2019. In February 2019, it was announced that Danai Gurira, who portrays Michonne, would exit the series in the tenth season. Gurira will appear in a limited capacity, in a handful of episodes that will be interspersed throughout the season. Later, in July 2019, Gurira confirmed her exit at a panel at San Diego Comic-Con, and stated: In July 2019, it was announced that Thora Birch and Kevin Carroll had been cast; Birch plays Gamma, a member of the Whisperers, and Carroll plays Virgil, a survivor looking for his family. Regarding Lauren Cohan's status on the show as Maggie Greene, showrunner Angela Kang remarked in July 2019, "I'll just say that we're working on it." Cohan left The Walking Dead in its ninth season to star in the TV series Whiskey Cavalier, however that series was canceled after one season. In October 2019, Kang affirmed Cohan would return as a series regular in season 11, but also hinted towards her appearance in the second half of season 10. Kang said that in developing season, even before knowing of Cohan's return, they had kept seeding that Maggie was still considered part of the ongoing narrative so that they could work in her return if she had the opportunity.. The trailer was released on July 19, 2019, at San Diego Comic-Con. The season premiere was made available for streaming to subscribers of AMC Premiere on September 29, 2019..  Early critical response to season 10 has been very positive. The critical consensus on Rotten Tomatoes reads, "A few changes in front of and behind the camera allow TWD to switch things up, creating space for compelling new stories and some scary new adversaries". Commenting on the season premiere, Comicbook.com called it a "perfect return"; Decider wrote that the episode "is gross, scary, and big budget storytelling the way only Walking Dead can do. Season 10 is already off to a promising start"; and Forbes wrote, "The writing remains on point, the direction is solid. The show is still in a good place." In further reviews based upon the first three episodes available to critics, Forbes wrote that "They're all good episodes, and I think I liked each one more than the last" and "they're very solid and continue my confidence in the Angela Kang era of the show, showing that season 9 wasn't a fluke. The show is genuinely good now, and I can't wait to see what's next. Comicbook.com praised the series for its horror elements, writing "The Walking Dead Season 10 recaptures the same tone of raw realism established by first-season showrunner Frank Darabont, expanding on it with a flavoring that is deliciously eerie. Not only is The Walking Dead straight-up scary, it often feels like a genuine horror movie, a feat achieved either through atmosphere and tension-building or pop-up spooks."