Season twenty-eight of Dancing with the Stars premiered on September 16, 2019 on the ABC network. On November 25, 2019, The Bachelorette star Hannah Brown and professional dancer Alan Bersten were announced winners, marking Bersten’s first win. Actor and comedian Kel Mitchell and Witney Carson finished second, while singers Ally Brooke and Sasha Farber and Lauren Alaina and Gleb Savchenko came in third and fourth place respectively..  For the first time, the couples were not announced in advance, but were revealed on the season premiere. On August 19, 2019, Peta Murgatroyd announced that she would be returning as a professional and on August 21, the cast was revealed on Good Morning America. Artem Chigvintsev and last season's champion Sharna Burgess did not return for this season. Two new dancers, Daniella Karagach and Pasha Pashkov, were added to the pro line-up. Karagach and returning pro Keo Motsepe do not have partners this season. This is the first season in which all the competing female pros have won prior. On September 16, it was announced that Christie Brinkley would withdraw from competing in the season due to injuries in rehearsals. Due to this, her daughter, Sailor, took her place. Tom Bergeron and Erin Andrews returned as hosts, while Carrie Ann Inaba, Len Goodman, and Bruno Tonioli, returned as judges. There was no troupe this season.. Individual judges' scores in the charts below throughout history. Season 4 runner-up, season 15 competitor and NSYNC member Joey Fatone served as a guest judge for this week. Spice Girls member Emma Bunton was originally supposed to guest judge the girl group round but could not attend due to scheduling conflicts. Emma Bunton was not replaced. For the second consecutive week, Jenna Johnson danced with Sean Spicer on account of Arnold's absence. ;Running order ;Judges' vote to save: Inaba: Lauren & Gleb Tonioli: Lauren & Gleb Goodman: Did not vote During the first round, the couples performed a redemption dance to a new song that was coached by one of the three judges. They also later danced one unlearned dance in the second round. Charleston is introduced. ;Running order ;Judges' vote to save: Inaba: Ally & Sasha Tonioli: Ally & Sasha Goodman: Did not vote, but would have voted to save Ally & Sasha The couples performed their favorite dance of the season and a freestyle routine. ;Running order. The celebrities and professional partners will dance one of these routines for each corresponding week: Week 1: Cha-cha-cha, foxtrot, salsa and tango : Highest scoring dance : Lowest scoring dance : Not scored or danced by the celebrity : Gained bonus points for winning this dance-off : Gained no bonus points for losing this dance-off