Survivor Series saving Raw from getting shut-out. In what were the only non-interbrand matches on the card, all three of WWE's were defended: Brock Lesnar retained Raws WWE Championship against Rey Mysterio in a No Holds Barred match, "The Fiend" Bray Wyatt retained SmackDowns Universal Championship against Daniel Bryan and Adam Cole retained the NXT Championship against Pete Dunne..  Since WWE reintroduced the brand extension in July 2016, Survivor Series has centered around competition between Raw and SmackDown for brand supremacy. In September 2019, however, NXT, previously a developmental territory exclusive to the WWE Network since the channel's February 2014 launch, debuted on the USA Network , Braun Strowman, King Corbin and Shorty G also announced for the team. NXT head Triple H tried to convince both Rollins and Owens to leave Raw and come back to NXT where they started their WWE careers. Both turned down the offers, leading to the NXT roster attacking members of Raw, as well as those on SmackDown. At the conclusion of the November 18 edition of Raw, Triple H invited members of Raw and SmackDown to the November 20 edition of NXT, where a large brawl broke out between all three brands. All the members of Raw, SmackDown and NXT would brawl a second time, this time following the conclusion of a six-man tag team match on the November 22 edition of SmackDown. Triple H, Shawn Michaels and Road Dogg lead the NXT roster in the invasion of SmackDown, reenacting how D-Generation X had attempted to invade World Championship Wrestling's Monday Nitro in 1998 with a tank. After the conclusion of TakeOver: WarGames, Triple H announced that Shawn Michaels would reveal the members of Team NXT during the Survivor Series Kickoff pre-show.. Three matches occurred during the two-hour Kickoff pre-show, two of which were announced during the pre-show. In the first, Dolph Ziggler and Robert Roode from SmackDown won an 10-man battle royal featuring tag teams from the three brands, lastly eliminating The Street Profits defended against Rey Mysterio in a No Holds Barred match. Mysterio quickly exited the ring and obtained a steel pipe, but Lesnar stopped Mysterio from using it and dominated him. Mysterio's son, Dominic, ran to the ring with a towel in hand, pleading with Lesnar to stop the onslaught. As Lesnar was distracted by Dominic, Mysterio took advantage and attacked Lesnar with a low blow, followed by a second one from Dominic, then both attacked Lesnar with a steel pipe and steel chair, respectively, followed by double 619's and dual Frog Splashes on Lesnar for a nearfall. As they attempted additional Frog Splashes, Lesnar quickly grabbed Dominic and performed a German suplex on him, then caught Mysterio in midair and performed an F-5 to retain the title. The main event was the non-title triple threat match between the brands' women's champions, Raw Women's Champion Becky Lynch, SmackDown Women's Champion Bayley, and NXT Women's Champion Shayna Baszler. The three traded offense throughout the match, each performing their signature moves. In the climax, as Lynch was down outside the ring, Bayley attempted a Diving Elbow Drop on Baszler, who caught her in the Kirifuda Clutch, forcing Bayley to submit to win the match. Baszler's win gave NXT the final point of the night to win brand supremacy at four points, while SmackDown had two and Raw only had one. Following the match, Lynch attacked Baszler and put her through the announce table..  The following night on Raw, Team Raw men's captain Seth Rollins addressed the locker room, who surrounded the ring and criticized their poor performance at Survivor Series, singling out in particular the performances of Charlotte Flair, Randy Orton and Rey Mysterio, as well as AOP celebrated their brand's victory over Raw and SmackDown at Survivor Series only for The Undisputed Era to interrupt. Adam Cole stated that the only reason NXT won was due to The Undisputed Era. Tommaso Ciampa reminded Cole that it was his team that defeated The Undisputed Era at WarGames and warned them that their days of holding their respective championships were numbered, with Ciampa focusing on Cole's NXT Championship and Keith Lee and Dominik Dijakovic focusing on Bobby Fish and Kyle O'Reilly's NXT Tag Team Championship. Finn Bálor then interrupted. In response, Ciampa issued a challenge to Bálor, which the latter agreed and Bálor defeated Ciampa due to interference from Cole, after which Bálor performed a Pele Kick on Cole to close the show. Also, Rhea Ripley had a face-to-face confrontation with NXT Women's Champion Shayna Baszler after Baszler, Marina Shafir and Jessamyn Duke attacked Xia Li following her match and congratulated her for defeating Raw Women's Champion Becky Lynch and SmackDown Women's Champion Bayley at Survivor Series, then reminded Baszler that her team defeated Baszler's at WarGames and then issued a challenge to Baszler for her championship, as Ripley was the one to pin Baszler. Also, Lio Rush defeated Raws Akira Tozawa to retain the NXT Cruiserweight Championship..  Team :&nbsp;– Raw :&nbsp;– SmackDown :&nbsp;– NXT