'The Lighthouse' is a 2019 American psychological horror film directed and produced by Robert Eggers, who co-wrote the screenplay with his brother Max Eggers. Shot in black-and-white, the film follows two lighthouse keepers , Eggers' screenplay and direction, and the performances of the leads.. In the late 19th century, Ephraim Winslow is sent on a boat to serve a contract job as a wickie for four weeks on an isolated island off the coast of New England, under the supervision of an irritable elderly man named Thomas Wake. On the first day of the job, Winslow notices a hole in his cot. As he digs into it, he finds a small scrimshaw of a mermaid and stuffs it in his jacket. Winslow observes Wake going up to the lighthouse's at night and stripping naked. Winslow begins experiencing visions and dreams of tentacles in the lighthouse, tree stumps floating in the water, and distant images of a mermaid. Over the course of his stay, Wake demands Winslow allocate to the more taxing jobs—refueling the light, carrying heavy kerosene containers, and disposing of the two men's chamber pots. As the weeks progress, Winslow repeatedly encounters a one-eyed gull. Wake warns Winslow that it is bad luck to kill a gull, as he is superstitious that the animals are reincarnated sailors. The weeks continue, and Winslow masturbates to the figurine of the mermaid and continues to see Wake naked. One night at dinner, the two get to know each other and discuss Wake's previous second wickie, who Wake says died shortly after losing his sanity. Winslow reveals that he used to work in Canada as a timberman, but decided to change professions. The day before Winslow is slated to leave, he notices the water pump is releasing bloody water and investigates. He checks the cistern to see a dead gull floating inside. The one-eyed seagull flies down and attacks Winslow, who grabs it and beats it to death against the cistern. That afternoon, the winds dramatically change direction. That night, a storm hits the island and the two men get drunk. The next morning, the ferry does not arrive and Winslow sees a body washed up on the shore. Winslow approaches the naked body and realizes that it is a mermaid. He runs back into the cottage to find Wake stating that the rations were impacted by the storm. They dig up a crate said to contain extra rations, but it only contains more alcohol. More nights progress and the storm continues, and the two men grow closer while remaining adversarial. Winslow unsuccessfully tries to steal the key to the lantern room from a sleeping Wake. He also has visions of a lobster trap containing the severed, half-blinded head of Wake's previous wickie. One night, Winslow tells Wake that his real name is Thomas Howard and that he assumed the identity of Ephraim Winslow, a timberman who died in an accident Howard failed to stop. Wake accuses Howard of "spilling his beans" and Howard tries to leave. He attempts to escape on a lifeboat, but Wake destroys it with an axe. Wake chases Howard into the cottage, but inside, Wake claims that it was Howard who attacked him. With no alcohol left, the two begin mixing spirits out of denatured alcohol and the storm becomes so powerful that waves crash through the windows of the cottage. The next morning, Howard finds Wake's log, recording his infractions and recommending severance without pay. Wake chides Howard for his work performance while Howard accuses Wake of gaslighting and attacks him. While seeing visions of the mermaid, Wake as a sea monster, and the real Winslow, Howard beats Wake into submission. Howard ties Wake in a rope leash and buries him alive in the ration pit. Howard takes the keys and prepares to go up to the lantern room, but Wake appears and hits him in the shoulder with the axe. Howard disarms and kills Wake before ascending the lighthouse. He approaches the Fresnel lens, and it stops and opens up to him. Howard gazes into the mirrored interior in ecstasy and lets out a distorted scream as the light brightens, before falling down the lighthouse steps. Howard is then seen lying naked on the rocks, missing an eye, as several gulls peck at his innards.. * Robert Pattinson as Ephraim Winslow/Thomas Howard, a young lighthouse keeper and former lumberjack. Willem Dafoe as Thomas Wake, an elderly lighthouse keeper and former sailor. Valeriia Karamän as the mermaid. The Lighthouse began as an attempt by Max Eggers to adapt "The Light-House," an unfinished short story by Edgar Allan Poe. Robert Eggers became aware of his brother's effort while trying to pitch his debut feature, The Witch, to studios. Max's project stalled, after which Robert offered to work on it based on his own vision. The final story, co-written by Robert and Max, bears no resemblance to the Poe work apart from the title. The literature of Maine-based writer Sarah Orne Jewett served as a significant point of reference for the dialects used in The Lighthouse. Maritime and surrealistic elements from the works of Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Herman Melville and Robert Louis Stevenson also informed the writing of the film. According to Eggers, a 19th-century incident at Smalls Lighthouse in Wales involving two lighthouse keepers .. The Lighthouse had its world premiere at the Cannes Film Festival in the Directors' Fortnight section on May 19, 2019. It was also screened at the Toronto International Film Festival, and the Atlantic Film Festival in September 2019. The film was distributed by A24 in North America and by Focus Features internationally. It was released on October 18, 2019..  In its limited opening weekend on October 18, the film grossed $419,764 from eight theaters, for an average of $52,471 per venue. In its second weekend the film expanded to 586 theaters, grossing $3 million and finishing eighth at the box office. The following weekend, the film expanded to 978 theaters, falling 34.7% to $2 million and finishing 13th. On review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 92% based on 273 reviews, with an average rating of 8.17/10. The site's critics' consensus reads, "A gripping story brilliantly filmed and led by a pair of powerhouse performances, The Lighthouse further establishes Robert Eggers as a filmmaker of exceptional talent." On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 83 out of 100, based on 45 critics, indicating "universal acclaim." Owen Gleiberman of Variety called the film "darkly exciting" and "made with extraordinary skill," commenting that "the movie, building on The Witch, proves that Robert Eggers possesses something more than impeccable genre skill. He has the ability to lock you into the fever of what's happening onscreen." Robbie Collin of The Daily Telegraph gave the film a perfect score, calling Dafoe's performance "astounding" and comparing Pattinson's to that of Daniel Day-Lewis in There Will Be Blood, commenting, "that's no comparison to make lightly, but everything about The Lighthouse lands with a crash. It's cinema to make your head and soul ring."