The fourth and final season of the fantasy comedy television series The Good Place, created by Michael Schur, was renewed by NBC on December 4, 2018. The season premiered on September 26, 2019, and will consist of 14 episodes. The season is produced by Fremulon, 3 Arts Entertainment, and Universal Television. The series focuses on Eleanor Shellstrop " following the opening title card..  Kristen Bell as Eleanor Shellstrop, a deceased, selfish saleswoman from Phoenix, Arizona. She pretends to be the architect of the Good Place after Michael becomes overwhelmed and has a panic attack. William Jackson Harper as Chidi Anagonye, a deceased professor of ethics and moral philosophy from Senegal. After having his memories of the afterlife erased, Chidi serves as one of the human participants in the team's experiment. Jameela Jamil as Tahani Al-Jamil, a deceased, wealthy English philanthropist who believes she belongs in the Good Place. She forms an unlikely friendship with Eleanor, who initially dislikes her positive attitude, condescending way of speaking, and tendency to name drop. D'Arcy Carden as Janet, a programmed guide and knowledge bank who acts as the Good Place's main source of information and can provide its residents with whatever they desire. Later, Janet gains a more humanlike disposition, and begins to act differently from the way she was designed. Carden also plays various versions of Janet:* Bad Janet, a disrespectful version designed not to respond to residents properly. She pretended to be Good Janet after the real Good Janet was kidnapped until Jason saw through the deception. She is released by Michael and is given a manifesto about the experiment.* Neutral Janet, a plain-face Janet who works in the neutral zone between the Good Place and the Bad Place.* Disco Janet. According to Michael, she was "fun, but a lot". Manny Jacinto as Jason Mendoza, a deceased amateur DJ and drug dealer from Jacksonville, Florida who winds up in the Good Place by mistake. He is introduced as Jianyu Li, a Taiwanese monk who took a vow of silence. Later, Jason proves to be an immature and unintelligent, but kindhearted Jacksonville Jaguars and Blake Bortles fan. Ted Danson as Michael, an architect who runs the Good Place neighborhood in which Eleanor, Chidi, Tahani, and Jason reside. Michael has a deep affinity for the mundane aspects of human life, like playing with paper clips or searching for one's car keys. "Michael" is a Hebrew name meaning "one who is like God." Marc Evan Jackson as Shawn, Michael's wicked boss. Shawn gives Michael two chances to pull off the torture experiment, and later turns against him when he finds out about Michael's betrayal. Maya Rudolph as Judge Gen . Brad Morris as Matt, a suicidal accountant who works in a neutral office between the Good Place and the Bad Place. He is assigned as the accountant for Eleanor and Michael's experiment. Joe Mande as the voice of Toddrick Hemple, a lava monster who refuses to wear a human suit. Paul Scheer as Chuck, a member of the Good Place committee..  An hour-long retrospective, The Paley Center Salutes The Good Place, aired on September 19, 2019, featuring interviews with cast members and series creator Michael Schur; the special received 1.25 million viewers. A special hosted by Seth Meyers will follow the extended series finale on January 30, 2020, featuring interviews with the cast.. On Rotten Tomatoes, the fourth season has a rating of 100%, based on 21 reviews, with an average rating of 8.33/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "A wild philosophical ride to the very end, The Good Place brings it home with a forking good final season."