'Sonic the Hedgehog' is an upcoming 2020 American superhero adventure comedy film based on the Sonic the Hedgehog video game franchise by Sega. The film is directed by Jeff Fowler from a screenplay by Patrick Casey, Josh Miller, and Oren Uziel and a story by Casey and Miller. It stars Ben Schwartz as the voice of Sonic and Jim Carrey as his nemesis Doctor Robotnik, alongside James Marsden and Tika Sumpter. In the film, a small-town sheriff assists Sonic as he attempts to escape Dr. Robotnik and the government. In 2013, Sony Pictures acquired the film rights to the franchise, and by 2014, it had a movie adaptation in development. Fowler was hired to direct in 2016. After Sony put the project in turnaround, Paramount Pictures acquired it in 2017, and the majority of the cast had signed on by August 2018. Filming took place between July and October 2018 in Ladysmith and Parksville both on Vancouver Island, and in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Sonic the Hedgehog, an international co-production between the United States and Japan, was originally scheduled to be released in the US on November 8, 2019, but after an overwhelmingly negative reaction to the first trailer, released on April 30, Paramount delayed the film to February 14, 2020 in order to redesign Sonic, whose original design drew the most criticism. The redesign, unveiled in a new trailer for the film, garnered a far more positive reaction from fans.. Sonic The Hedgehog is an anthropomorphic blue hedgehog from another world, who comes to Earth to escape villains seeking to harness his power of speed. After accidentally causing a massive power outage while hiding out in the town of Green Hills, Montana, he is targeted by the military and they hire the malevolent roboticist Dr. Robotnik to hunt him down. Meanwhile, former-SFPD officer-turned-Green Hills sheriff Tom Wachowski meets and soon befriends Sonic. With the help of his wife Annie Wachowski and his friend Billy Robb, they must help Sonic escape the military and stop Robotnik from using Sonic's powers for world domination.. * Ben Schwartz as the voice of Sonic: an anthropomorphic blue hedgehog who can run at supersonic speeds and is on the run from the government. Jim Carrey as Dr. Robotnik: an insane roboticist who is after Sonic and his power of speed to take over the world. James Marsden as Tom Wachowski: a former SFPD officer-turned-newly appointed sheriff of Green Hills, Montana who befriends Sonic and aids him in his quest to stop Robotnik. Tika Sumpter as Annie Wachowski: Tom's wife. Adam Pally as Billy Robb: a fellow police officer of Green Hills who is a friend of Tom. Neal McDonough as Major Bennington Lee Majdoub as Stone: a corrupt secret agent who works closely with Robotnik. Frank C. Turner as Crazy Carl Natasha Rothwell, Debs Howard, Elfina Luk, Riff Raff, Shannon Chan-Kent and Garry Chalk are cast in undisclosed roles..  Sony Pictures Entertainment acquired the rights to produce and distribute a film based Sonic the Hedgehog in 2013. On June 10, 2014, a live-action animated film was announced as a joint venture between Sony Pictures and Marza Animation Planet. It would be produced by Neal H. Moritz by his Original Film banner alongside Takeshi Ito, Mie Onishi, and Toru Nakahara, and written by Evan Susser and Van Robichaux. In February 2016, Sega CEO Hajime Satomi said the film was scheduled for 2018. Blur Studio's Tim Miller and Jeff Fowler were hired in 2016 to develop it; Fowler would make his feature directorial debut, and Miller and Fowler would executive produce. Patrick Casey, Josh Miller, and Oren Uziel were writing the screenplay, while Casey and Miller wrote the story. On October 2, 2017, Paramount Pictures announced that they had acquired the rights after Sony's Columbia Pictures put the film into turnaround. Most of the production team remained unchanged. In February 2018, it was announced that the movie would be released in November 2019. On May 29, 2018, it was reported that Paul Rudd was in talks for a lead role as Tom, "a cop who befriends Sonic and will likely team up to defeat Dr. Eggman," but was later denied. A day later, it was announced that James Marsden was cast in an undisclosed role, but later revealed to be Tom Wachowski. In June 2018, Tika Sumpter was cast. Jim Carrey was cast to play the villain, Dr. Robotnik. In August 2018, Ben Schwartz joined as the voice of Sonic. A few days later, Adam Pally and Neal McDonough were cast. Debs Howard and Elfina Luk joined the cast the following November. Principal photography took place from July 24, 2018 and ended in Vancouver, Ladysmith, and Vancouver Island on October 16, 2018. Post-production and additional photography took place in October in New York, where Carrey shot his scenes. The visual effects are provided by Moving Picture Company , gloves, and a less humanlike body in order to resemble the character's design in the video games. It is estimated that the delay of the film and the redesign of Sonic put the film $5 million or less over its original budget of $90 million, for a total of $95 million.. In February 2019, Tom Holkenborg , who previously worked with executive producer Tim Miller on Deadpool and Terminator: Dark Fate, signed on to compose the score. Riff Raff, who has a role in the film, will also appear on the soundtrack.. Test footage was screened at the Comic Con Experience in Brazil on December 6, 2018. A teaser poster was released on December 10, 2018, revealing the silhouette design of Sonic. It received a mostly negative response from critics and fans, and was compared unfavorably to another 2019 video game film adaptation, Detective Pikachu, which added fur and skin textures to the Pokémon characters. His humanoid appearance was described as evoking an uncanny valley-type of repulsive response by viewers. Former members of Sonic Team, who created the original Sonic the Hedgehog games, also expressed surprise at the design. A second poster was leaked online shortly after the release of the first. Fans complained of a lack of resemblance to the games and criticized the positioning of Sonic's legs, spawning an internet meme in which users recreated the position. The film's official Twitter account posted an image of Sonic behind a sign reading: "Can't a guy work out?" Images of the Sonic design were leaked in March 2019 to more fan criticism. Former Sonic Team president and Sonic co-creator Yuji Naka was "shocked" by the design and felt the ratio of Sonic's head and abdomen was imbalanced. According to animator Max Schneider, Paramount expected that Sonic fans would object to the redesign but that general audiences would not care, as had been the case with their 2014 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film. He said Paramount felt the design gelled with the real-world setting and characters. The first trailer premiered on April 4, 2019 at CinemaCon in Las Vegas, and was released online on April 30. It experienced a highly negative reception, with Gita Jackson of Kotaku calling it "horrific" and "a blight upon this weary earth". Sonic's design was criticized, particularly for his overly humanoid appearance, while some writers found the use of Coolio's "Gangsta's Paradise" out-of-place. Conversely, CNET's Sean Keane praised the humor and references to the games. Within two days of its release, the trailer had been viewed more than 20million times on YouTube, and had received hundreds of thousands of "dislike" ratings which drastically outnumbered the hundreds of thousands "like" ratings. Paramount deleted the original trailer from its YouTube channel around the same time when the new trailer was released. IMDb rated the movie a 4.5/10 rating shortly after the 1st trailer dropped. A second trailer revealing the redesigned Sonic was released on November 12, 2019. The trailer received far more positive responses, with many praising Sonic's new design as more faithful to the original. The tone and the humor also received positive reviews. Naka said he felt the new design was "much more Sonic-like". Schneider said the redesign took around 5 months and was achieved without stressful overtime.. Sonic the Hedgehog is scheduled to be released on February 14, 2020. The movie was initially going release sometime in 2018 by under its Columbia Pictures label. After Paramount Pictures got the rights to the film in 2017, they rescheduled it to November 15, 2019 in February 2018. The film was later moved up a week earlier to November 8, 2019. Following the announcement of the character's redesign in May 2019, director Jeff Fowler announced that the film would be delayed once more to its current release date in order to correct Sonic's design.