Robert Anthony De Niro Jr. .. Robert Anthony De Niro Jr. was born on August 17, 1943, in the Manhattan borough of New York City, the only child of painters Virginia Admiral and Robert De Niro Sr. He is of Irish and Italian descent on his father's side, while his mother had Dutch, English, French, and German ancestry. De Niro's parents, who had met at the painting classes of Hans Hofmann in Provincetown, Massachusetts, divorced when he was two years old after his father announced that he was gay. De Niro was raised by his mother in the Greenwich Village and Little Italy areas of Manhattan. His father lived within walking distance and De Niro spent much time with him as he grew up. His mother was raised Presbyterian but became an atheist as an adult, while his father had been a lapsed Catholic since the age of 12. Against his parents' wishes, his grandparents had him secretly baptized into the Catholic Church while he was staying with them during his parents' divorce. De Niro attended PS 41, a public elementary school in Manhattan, through the sixth grade. He then went to Elisabeth Irwin High School, the private upper school of the Little Red School House, for the seventh and eighth grades. He was accepted into the High School of Music and Art for the ninth grade, but only attended for a short time before transferring to a public junior high school, IS 71, Charles Evan Hughes Junior High School. De Niro began high school at the private McBurney School and later attended the private Rhodes Preparatory School, although he graduated from neither. Nicknamed "Bobby Milk" for his pallor, De Niro hung out with a group of street kids as a youth in Little Italy, some of whom have remained his lifelong friends. His stage debut was at age 10, when he played the Cowardly Lion in a school production of The Wizard of Oz. Along with finding relief from shyness through performing, he was also fixated by cinema, and he dropped out of high school at age 16 to pursue acting. He studied acting at HB Studio, the Stella Adler Conservatory, as well as Lee Strasberg's Actors Studio..  De Niro's first film role came at the age of 20, when he appeared in Brian De Palma's 1963 film The Wedding Party, but the film was not released until 1969. He then appeared in Roger Corman's film Bloody Mama . In August 2019, De Niro's film production company Canal Productions filed a $6 million lawsuit against a former employee for breaching her fiduciary duties and violating New York's faithless servant doctrine by embezzling money and binge-watching Netflix at work, including watching 55 episodes of Friends in four days.. De Niro studied with Stella Adler, from whom he learned about the techniques of the Stanislavski system. The technique encouraged him to explore both internal and external aspects to fully realize the character being portrayed. He is praised for his commitment to roles; he gained 60&nbsp;lb and learned how to box for his role as Jake LaMotta in Raging Bull, ground his teeth down for Cape Fear, lived in Sicily for The Godfather Part II, worked as a cab driver for a few weeks for Taxi Driver, and learned to play the saxophone for New York, New York. He again put on weight for his performance as Al Capone in The Untouchables. De Niro's brand of acting includes employing whatever extreme tactic he feels is necessary to elicit the best performance from those with whom he is working. During the filming of The King of Comedy, he directed a slew of anti-Semitic epithets at co-star Jerry Lewis to enhance and authenticate the anger demonstrated by Lewis' character. According to People magazine, the technique was successful, with Lewis recalling, "I forgot the cameras were there... I was going for Bobby's throat.".  De Niro married his first wife, Diahnne Abbott, in 1976. They have a son, Raphael, a former actor who works in New York real estate. De Niro also adopted Abbott's daughter Drena De Niro from a previous relationship. They divorced in 1988. De Niro has twin sons, Julian and Aaron, conceived by in vitro fertilization and delivered by a surrogate mother in 1995, from a long relationship with former model Toukie Smith. In 1997, De Niro married his second wife, actress Grace Hightower. Their son, Elliot, was born in 1998 and the couple split in 1999. The divorce was never finalized and in 2004 they renewed their vows. In December 2011, their daughter was born via surrogate. In addition to his six children, De Niro has four grandchildren; his daughter, Drena, has one child, and his son, Raphael, has three. In November 2018, it was reported De Niro and Hightower had separated after 20 years of marriage. In October 2003, his spokesman announced that De Niro had been diagnosed with prostate cancer. He underwent surgery at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in December 2003. De Niro announced on March 25, 2016, that his son, Elliot, has autism and explained his interest in its causes and treatment. De Niro, who has long resided in New York City, has been investing in Manhattan's Tribeca neighborhood since 1989. He has residences on the east and west sides of Manhattan. He also has a estate in Gardiner, New York, which serves as his primary residence. In 2014, he and Grace Hightower moved into a 6,000-square-foot, five-bedroom apartment at 15 Central Park West in Manhattan. He is a stakeholder in Paradise Found Nobu Resort, a company planning to build a luxury resort on the island of Barbuda. Tribeca Grill is a New American restaurant located at 375 Greenwich Street . This has made many residents, who initially sympathized with De Niro, angry, and some proposed to raise money privately to help the town continue the suit. A local newspaper's report on the continued dispute was picked up by The New York Times and made international news. "When he read about it on Election Day, he went bananas," due to the negative publicity, said Gardiner town councilman Wiegand. He had apparently been unaware that the trust had filed the lawsuit. Its accountants took the blame, citing their fiduciary duty. A short time later, his lawyer met with town officials, at De Niro's direction, and offered them withdrawal of the suit and $129,000 in reimbursement for the town's legal bills, paid by the accounting firm. " made it very clear that De Niro didn't want to screw the town, that he didn't know about any of it and that he wanted it settled as quickly as possible," Wiegand said. In October 2019, a former employee, Graham Chase Robinson, filed a lawsuit against De Niro claiming that she was subject to harassment and gender discrimination while working at his production company. Robinson claimed that De Niro himself made "sexually charged" comments towards her and subjected her to "unwanted physical contact" while under his employment. After Robinson attempted to resign from her position at De Niro's company, he allegedly threatened to ruin any future career of Robinson's in order to coerce her to remain in her position. In 1998, he lobbied Congress against impeaching President Bill Clinton. While promoting the film The Good Shepherd with co-star Matt Damon on the December 8, 2006, episode of Hardball with Chris Matthews at George Mason University, De Niro was asked whom he would like to see as President of the United States. De Niro responded, "Well, I think of two people: Hillary Clinton and Obama." On February 4, 2008, De Niro supported Obama at a rally at the Izod Center in New Jersey before Super Tuesday. In 2012, De Niro joined the anti-fracking campaign Artists Against Fracking. During the 2016 presidential campaign, De Niro was an outspoken critic of then-Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, calling him "so blatantly stupid" and stating, "He wants to punch people in the face?! I'd like to punch him in the face." This was in reference to the similar desire Trump expressed towards protestors at one of his rallies. On June 10, 2018, while introducing a performance by Bruce Springsteen of his song "My Hometown" at the 72nd Tony Awards, De Niro brought the audience to a standing ovation with this denunciation of President Trump: A day later, in front of a crowd in Toronto, he apologized to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for Trump's "idiotic behavior". He has said that Trump is a racist, and that like many white liberals he was "naive" about Obama's two election wins and their implication of a post-racial America. "I felt we were on a new thing. I didn't realise how against him certain people were – racially against him, offended that he was there." In March 2016 De Niro initially defended the inclusion of a controversial documentary about an alleged vaccination coverup, Vaxxed, at his 2016 Tribeca Film Festival. He explained that his interest in the film resulted from his family experience with an autistic son. De Niro withdrew his recommendation "after reviewing it ... with the Tribeca Film Festival team and others from the scientific community". He said he was pressured by some festival filmmakers to remove Vaxxed from the festival lineup. He also said that he intends to be a part of the conversation about vaccines and autism in the future. In March 2019 Amazon Video removed Vaxxed from its streaming library on the same day California Rep. Adam Schiff wrote them a letter with his concerns. In February 2017 De Niro took part in a joint presentation with Robert F. Kennedy Jr., chairman of the anti-vaccine non-profit Children's Health Defense, to discuss their concerns with vaccine safety. At the event Kennedy offered $100,000 to anyone who could prove that vaccines have no long term health impact. De Niro on numerous occasions since 2016 has stated that he is not anti-vaccination, but does not believe vaccines to be safe and are likely linked to autism. De Niro was raised by an atheist mother and a lapsed Catholic father who left the Catholic Church at age 12. His grandparents had him secretly baptized Catholic, and his grandmother was the main advocate of Catholicism in the family. When asked why he would not play Jesus Christ in Martin Scorsese's 1988 film The Last Temptation of Christ, he explained on at least two different occasions: De Niro received an Italian passport in 2006. His Italian citizenship was granted by the Italian government despite strong opposition by the Sons of Italy, who believe that De Niro damaged the public image of Italians by portraying criminals.. * Baxter, John . Untouchable: A Biography of Robert De Niro. Da Capo Press. .