Outlook.com is a web-based suite of webmail, contacts, tasks, and calendaring services from Microsoft. Founded in 1996 by Sabeer Bhatia and Jack Smith as Hotmail, Microsoft acquired it in 1997 for an estimated $400 million and launched it as MSN Hotmail, later rebranded to Windows Live Hotmail as part of the Windows Live suite of products. Microsoft released the final version of Hotmail in October 2011 and it was replaced by Outlook.com in 2012..  Hotmail service was founded by Sabeer Bhatia and Jack Smith, and was one of the first webmail services on the Internet along with Four11's RocketMail to fetch mail only. Microsoft concluded this preview stage in February 2016, when it began to roll out the new version to users' accounts, beginning with North America. On August 8, 2017, Microsoft launched a new opt-in beta toggle allowing users to test upcoming changes to the Outlook.com Mail, including a faster inbox, a responsive design, and the ability to search for emojis. There was also an introduction of the Photos Hub, the fifth component of Outlook.com. On October 30, 2017, Microsoft announced that it would phase out its "Outlook.com Premium" subscription service, which offered features such as expanded storage and removal of ads from the user interface. These benefits were subsequently made available to Office 365 subscribers, and Microsoft will no longer accept new subscriptions to Outlook.com Premium. Existing Outlook.com Premium subscribers may continue to renew their existing subscription. The old interface, which dated from 2016, was phased out in mid-February 2018.. Similar to other major webmail services, Outlook.com uses Ajax programming techniques and supports later versions of Internet Explorer, Firefox, Safari, and Google Chrome. Some of its features include keyboard controls giving the ability to navigate around the page without using the mouse, the ability to search the user's messages including structured query syntax such as "from:ebay", message filters, folder-based organization of messages, auto-completion of contact addresses when composing, contact grouping, importing and exporting of contacts as CSV files, rich text formatting, rich text signatures, spam filtering and virus scanning, support for multiple addresses, and different language versions. One example of a feature no longer present is the ability to create custom domain names. Outlook.com has promised to respect users' privacy, specifically targeting Gmail's privacy practices. Outlook.com does not scan emails or attachments for advertising information and personal conversations are ad-free entirely. In March 2014, when former Microsoft employee Alex Kibkalo was arrested for his involvement in 2012 leaking of Microsoft's trade secrets, Microsoft came under criticism for having accessed the email inbox of his French accomplice. Critics claim these actions violate privacy laws as well as Microsoft's own promises with regards to users' personal information, while others have pointed out that such access is permitted under Microsoft's privacy policies in order to "protect the rights or property of Microsoft", that it was necessary in order to prevent a crime intended to have inflicted billions of dollars of damage, and that such action on Microsoft's part is unprecedented in 18 years. In response to the criticism, Microsoft has announced that it would no longer access private account information themselves in such cases, but would instead hand the investigation over to law enforcement agencies. Outlook.com uses DMARC specifications to provide better security for message transmission and Extended Validation Certificate to secure the user's connection with Outlook.com. On April 17, 2013, Microsoft added two step verification to Microsoft accounts, thereby by extension to Outlook.com. Outlook also allows for a single-use code to be used instead of a user's password when signing into a Microsoft account. Each code can only be used once, but one can be requested whenever needed. If a user is signing in on a public computer—such as at the library or school—using a single-use code helps keep account information secure. The single-use code is sent to the user when requested during login. Outlook.com's Active View allows users to interact directly with contents and functionality within their email message. For example, any photo attachments can be previewed directly using Active View. In addition, Outlook.com provides a partner platform which allows contents and functionality from various websites and services such as YouTube, Flickr, LinkedIn, and the United States Postal Service to be viewed directly within the email message. For example, users may view the YouTube video within Outlook.com when a user receives an email which contains a link to the video. Other Active View features include tracking of real time shipping status from United States Postal Service and performing social networking actions on LinkedIn or other social networking sites directly from within the email message. Outlook's time-management web application was first released on January 14, 2008 as Windows Live Calendar, and was updated to the "Wave 4" release on June 7, 2010. It was updated with Microsoft's Metro design in a phased roll-out to users from April 2, 2013. Calendar features a similar interface to desktop calendar applications such as Windows Calendar, and supports iCalendar files for users to import calendar entries into their calendars. It uses Ajax technology which enables users to view, add and drag-and-drop calendar events from one date to another without reloading the page, and features daily, weekly, monthly and agenda view modes. It also features a to-do list function for users to keep track of their tasks to be completed. Calendar events are stored online and can be viewed from any location. Multiple calendars can be created and shared, allowing different levels of permissions for each user. Outlook's contacts management service was originally known as Windows Live Contacts and before that, Windows Live People. It provides users with access to their contacts' profiles and information, allowing them to share different information with different groups of people. Besides an address book, People also provides integrated services with social media, such as Facebook and Twitter. The service was rebranded to its current name in 2012, introducing a new interface based on the Metro design language that had already been introduced with Outlook.com. Contacts are automatically updated in real-time, and the service allows for the removal of duplicated contact entries when imported with Profile. Users can also set limits on what parts of their contact details can be seen by others. Tasks is task management component of Outlook.com introduced during the transition to the Office 365-based infrastructure. Outlook.com integrates with Office for the web to allow viewing and editing of Microsoft Word, Excel and PowerPoint documents that are attached to the email messages. Users can directly open attached Office documents within the web browser, and save them into their OneDrive. Users can also perform edits to any received Office documents, and directly reply to the sender with the edited version of the document. In addition, users may also send up to 25 GB of Office documents based on whether or not the email message is unread, from the People service list, group mailing lists, or from a social networking website. Categories appear under quick views for ease of access. Users can create additional, unique email addresses, called aliases, for their Microsoft account. As of April 17, 2013, users can sign in with any alias and create up to 10 aliases per year for a total of up to 10 addresses. For a given account, all aliases uses the same inbox, contact list, and account settings—including password—as the primary address. Once an alias is set up, users can choose to have all email sent to that address go to the inbox, or to a different folder. Emails sent from an alias do not reveal to recipients that they come from an account with other addresses. The freeware version of hotmail.com provides a list of almost 50 keyboard shortcuts for web users with visual impairment, blindness or other disabilities.. Microsoft has released client applications for Android and iOS, allowing users to access their inboxes and send new messages. The apps were formerly known as Accompli, which was acquired by Microsoft in December 2014, and were rebranded as Outlook Mobile in January 2015.. Outlook.com supports email clients connecting through the following protocols, listed in chronological order:WebDAV was used by Outlook Express but was discontinued on September 1, 2009.Microsoft Outlook 2002 introduced in Microsoft Office XP included integrated support for Outlook.com accounts.DeltaSync was used by Microsoft Outlook Hotmail Connector, a free plug-in for Microsoft Outlook 2003, 2007 or 2010. Using the Outlook connector, users can freely access email messages, contacts, and calendars in any Outlook.com account, though access to tasks and notes requires a premium subscription. Another alternative for users is to use the Windows Live Mail desktop client, which had built-in support for Hotmail.Post Office Protocol version 3 and OAuth..  Like many free webmail services, including but not limited to Yahoo and Gmail, Hotmail was often used by spammers for illicit purposes such as junk or chain mailing and unwanted marketing, due to wide availability, service popularity, and ease of registration of new accounts. Hotmail amended its service agreement stating that any account engaging in these activities would be terminated without warning. The ability to associate Outlook.com accounts with mobile phones or other email addresses was initially advertised as an optional feature. However, an update in 2013 required many users to associate their accounts before the website would allow them to log in - a refusal which could be sidestepped by using an app, such as Windows Live Mail 2011 or 2012, to access the account instead of a web browser newsletters indicate that Microsoft has allowed NSA to access chats and emails on Outlook.com, and implemented a bypass of its advertised encryption in order to facilitate government access.One newsletter entry dated December 26, 2012, shows that Microsoft had "developed a surveillance capability to deal" with the interception of encrypted chats on Outlook.com, within five months after the service went into public testing.Another entry states that "for Prism collection against Hotmail, Live, and Outlook.com emails will be unaffected because Prism collects this data prior to encryption". In response to the report, Microsoft stated, among other things, that "when we upgrade or update products we aren't absolved from the need to comply with existing or future lawful demands" and that "there are aspects of this debate that we wish we were able to discuss more freely".