The play-offs of the UEFA Euro 2020 qualifying tournament will decide the last four teams which will qualify for the UEFA Euro 2020 final tournament. Unlike previous editions, the participants of the play-offs were not decided based on results from the qualifying group stage. Instead, 16 teams that failed to qualify through their group were selected based on their performance in the 2018–19 UEFA Nations League. The sixteen teams were then divided into four paths, each containing four teams, with each play-off path featuring two single-leg semi-finals, and one single-leg final. The four play-off path winners will join the twenty teams that have already qualified for UEFA Euro 2020. The matches will take place on 26 and 31 March 2020.. With the new play-off format, the qualifying process will guarantee that at least one team from each division of the previous Nations League season will qualify for the final tournament. The 16 teams were selected based on their performance in the 2018–19 UEFA Nations League. These teams were divided into four paths, each containing four teams, with one team from each path qualifying for the final tournament. Each league would have its own play-off path if at least four teams are available. The Nations League group winners then qualified automatically for the play-off path of their league. If a group winner had already qualified through the conventional qualifying group stage, they were then replaced by the next best-ranked team in the same league. However, if there were not enough teams in the same league, then the spot went to the next best team in the overall ranking. However, group winners could not face teams from a higher league. With the being held on 30 November 2019 prior to the play-offs, it was possible that some groups could not be finalised based on the hosts in the play-offs, in which case a second draw would have taken place after the play-offs on 1 April 2020. However, UEFA confirmed the additional draw was not necessary after the identity of the 20 directly qualified teams and the 16 play-offs teams was known. Based on the , the 16 selected teams were chosen as follows, starting with League D and working up to League A: # All available group winners were selected. # If a group winner had already qualified through the UEFA Euro 2020 qualifying group stage, they were replaced by the next best-ranked team from the same league which had not also already qualified. # If fewer than four teams from a given league had failed to qualify, then the remaining spaces for that league were allocated by the overall ranking: ## If the league had a group winner selected for the play-offs, then the next best team in the overall ranking from a lower league was selected. ## If the league had no group winner available, then the best team in the overall ranking was selected. The 16 selected teams were then allocated to paths of 4 teams. The draw to allocate teams to the different paths was subject to the following general conditions: # Group winners could not form a path with a team from a higher league. # If four or more teams from a league entered the play-offs, a path with four teams from the league in question had to be formed. # Additional conditions may have been applied, subject to approval, including seeding principles and the possibility of final tournament hosts having to be drawn into different paths. With these conditions, the draw procedure was as follows, starting with League D and working up to League A: # Form a path with four teams from the same league. # If there were more than four teams qualified in a given league, draw which teams would participate in the play-off path of that league. # Remaining teams were drawn into a path of a higher league. If there were no teams from League A , then this procedure would result in four teams from lower leagues being allocated to the path of League A. Each play-off path will feature two single-leg semi-finals on 26 March, and one single-leg final on 31 March 2020. Based on the , the best-ranked team will host the fourth-ranked team, and the second-ranked team will host the third-ranked team. The host of the final was decided during the , chosen between the winners of the semi-final pairings. The play-offs are played in single-leg knockout matches. If scores are level at the end of normal time, 30 minutes of is played, where each team is allowed to make a fourth substitution. If the scores remain tied, a penalty shoot-out is used to determine the winner.. The qualifying play-off draw took place on 22 November 2019, 12:00 CET, at the UEFA headquarters in Nyon, Switzerland. The draw followed the to determine the play-off paths which the non-group winners would participate in. Four separate draws determining the host of the play-off final of each path also took place between the winners of the semi-final pairings took part in the draw, with one being drawn into Path C, while the remaining three were allocated to Path A: # # # # The team drawn into Path C occupies position C4, while the three teams drawn into Path A occupy positions A2, A3 and A4, following their Nations League ranking. The following is the composition of the play-off paths: Key The following semi-final winners were drawn to host the play-off final: Path A: Winner Path B: Winner Path C: Winner Path D: Winner With hosts Scotland in Path C, and two other hosts Hungary and Romania to be drawn into Path A or C, it was not possible to prevent one of these paths from containing two host teams. Therefore, the winner of the path with two hosts had to be .. The semi-finals will take place on 26 March and the final matches on 31 March 2020. The fixture list was confirmed by UEFA on 22 November 2019 following the draw. Times are CET/CEST, as listed by UEFA . Kick-off times will generally be 20:45, with some exceptions at 18:00 based on the local time zone.. The winner of Path A will enter one of the following groups in the final tournament:If Bulgaria, Hungary or Iceland win Path A, the winner of Path A will enter Group F.If Romania win Path A, they will enter Group C. |- | colspan="3" style="text-align:center; background:whitesmoke;" | Semi-finals |- | colspan="3" style="text-align:center; background:whitesmoke;" | Final |} ----. The winner of Path B will enter Group E in the final tournament. |- | colspan="3" style="text-align:center; background:whitesmoke;" | Semi-finals |- | colspan="3" style="text-align:center; background:whitesmoke;" | Final |} ----. The winner of Path C will enter Group D in the final tournament. |- | colspan="3" style="text-align:center; background:whitesmoke;" | Semi-finals |- | colspan="3" style="text-align:center; background:whitesmoke;" | Final |} ----. The winner of Path D will enter one of the following groups in the final tournament:If Bulgaria, Hungary or Iceland win Path A, the winner of Path D will enter Group C.If Romania win Path A, the winner of Path D will enter Group F. |- | colspan="3" style="text-align:center; background:whitesmoke;" | Semi-finals |- | colspan="3" style="text-align:center; background:whitesmoke;" | Final |} ---- <!--