The 2020 UEFA European Football Championship, commonly referred to as UEFA Euro 2020 or simply Euro 2020, is scheduled to be the 16th UEFA European Championship, the quadrennial international men's football championship of Europe organised by UEFA. The tournament is scheduled to be held in 12 cities in 12 UEFA countries from 12 June to 12 July 2020. Portugal are the defending champions, having won the 2016 edition. For the first time, the video assistant referee system will be used at the UEFA European Championship. Former UEFA President Michel Platini said the tournament is being hosted in several nations as a "romantic" one-off event to celebrate the 60th "birthday" of the European Championship competition. Having the largest capacity of any of the stadiums entered for the competition, Wembley Stadium in London will host the semi-finals and final for the second time, having done so before at the 1996 tournament in its former incarnation. The Stadio Olimpico in Rome will host the opening game, involving Turkey and hosts Italy.. While some countries had already expressed an interest in bidding to host Euro 2020, then-UEFA President Michel Platini suggested at a press conference on 30 June 2012, a day before the UEFA Euro 2012 Final, that instead of having one host country ; Brussels, marked with red, were initially selected but removed from the list of venues by UEFA on 7 December 2017 and the planned games there were moved to Wembley.. There is no automatic qualifying berth, and all 55 UEFA national teams, including the 12 national teams whose countries are scheduled to stage matches, must compete in the qualifiers for the 24 places at the finals tournament. As the host cities were appointed by UEFA in September 2014, before the qualifiers, it is possible for the national teams from the host cities to fail to qualify for the finals tournament. The UEFA Euro 2020 qualifying draw was held on 2 December 2018 at the Convention Centre Dublin in Dublin, Republic of Ireland. The main qualifying process started in March 2019, instead of immediately in September 2018 following the 2018 FIFA World Cup, and ended in November 2019. The format remains largely the same, although only 20 of the 24 spots for the finals tournament are to be decided from the main qualifying process, leaving four spots still to be decided. Following the admission of Kosovo to UEFA in May 2016, it was announced that the 55 members at the time would be drawn into ten groups after the completion of the UEFA Nations League , defending European champions Portugal and world champions France, with Germany also qualifying for a record 13th straight European Championship. Finland will make their European Championship debut, having never previously qualified for a major tournament. The Netherlands and Denmark returned after missing out in 2016, with the Dutch featuring in a major tournament for the first time since 2014. For the first time, Austria and Wales reached successive European Championship tournaments. Greece, winners in 2004, were the only former champions which failed to qualify, missing their second straight European Championship and third consecutive major tournament. Of the twelve host countries, seven managed to qualify directly for the tournament. Four will enter the play-offs, with a maximum of three being able to qualify, while Azerbaijan were entirely eliminated following the qualifying group stage.. The venues were selected and announced by UEFA on 19 September 2014. However, the UEFA Executive Committee removed Brussels as a host city on 7 December 2017 due to delays with the building of the Eurostadium. The four matches , two balls were prepared, with the first drawn hosting the three matches.. The draw for the final tournament was held on 30 November 2019, 18:00 CET : . UEFA announced the tournament schedule on 24 May 2018, which only included kick-off times for the opening match and quarter-finals onward. The kick-off times of the remaining group stage and round of 16 matches were announced on 30 November 2019 following the final draw. Group winners, runners-up, and the advance to the round of 16. Times are CEST ; # Position in the . ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----. In the knockout phase, if a match is level at the end of normal playing time, is played , as listed by UEFA. If the venue is located in a different time zone, the local time is also given. ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----. The International Broadcast Centre will be located at the Expo Haarlemmermeer in Vijfhuizen, Netherlands..  The official logo was unveiled on 21 September 2016, during a ceremony at the City Hall in London. The logo depicts the Henri Delaunay Trophy surrounded by celebrating fans on a bridge, which, according to UEFA, represents how football connects and unifies people. Each individual host city also has their own unique logo. The rectangular logos feature the text "UEFA EURO 2020" on the top, the city name above the text "host city" on the bottom , the main tournament logo on the left, and a local bridge on the right. Each logo exists in English, along with variations in the local language when applicable. The logos were unveiled from September 2016 to January 2017. The official slogan of the tournament is "Live It. For Real". The slogan is meant to encourage fans to see the matches live in the stadiums across Europe. On 6 November 2019, UEFA announced that the Uniforia by Adidas would be the tournament's official match ball. Predominantly white, the ball features black strokes with blue, neon, and pink stripes. The name is derived from a portmanteau of "unity" and "euphoria". The official mascot of the tournament, Skillzy, was unveiled on 24 March 2019. The character is inspired by freestyle football, street football and panna culture. On 19 October 2019, Dutch DJ and record producer Martin Garrix was announced as the official music artist of the tournament. He will produce the official song of the tournament, as well as the walkout music preceding matches and the television broadcast music. The tournament song, which will be released in early 2020, will be first performed in full on 12 June 2020 at the opening ceremony at the Stadio Olimpico in Rome.