The third season of the British-American web television series The Crown, which follows the life and reign of Queen Elizabeth II, consists of ten episodes and was released on Netflix on November 17, 2019. Olivia Colman stars as Elizabeth, along with main cast members Tobias Menzies, Helena Bonham Carter, Ben Daniels, Jason Watkins, Marion Bailey, Erin Doherty, Jane Lapotaire, Charles Dance, Josh O'Connor, Geraldine Chaplin, Michael Maloney, Emerald Fennell, and Andrew Buchan. John Lithgow and Pip Torrens return in cameo appearances.. The Crown traces the life of Queen Elizabeth II from her wedding in 1947 through to the present day. Season three covers the time period between 1964 and 1977, beginning with Harold Wilson's election as prime minister and ending with the Silver Jubilee of Elizabeth II. Events depicted include the unmasking of the Queen's art adviser Sir Anthony Blunt as a Soviet spy, Harold Wilson and Edward Heath's respective times as prime minister, the Aberfan disaster, the Apollo 11 moon landing, the 1969 Investiture of Prince Charles, the death of the Duke of Windsor, the death and state funeral of Winston Churchill, and Princess Margaret's eight-year affair with baronet and gardening expert Roddy Llewellyn and suicide attempt that leads to the Princess's divorce from Antony Armstrong-Jones in 1978. Camilla Shand is also introduced.. * Olivia Colman as Queen Elizabeth II Tobias Menzies as Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, Elizabeth's husband Helena Bonham Carter as Princess Margaret, Countess of Snowdon, Elizabeth's younger sister Ben Daniels as Antony Armstrong-Jones, Earl of Snowdon, known as Lord Snowdon and informally as Tony; Princess Margaret's husband Jason Watkins as Prime Minister Harold Wilson Marion Bailey as Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother, George VI's wife and Elizabeth II's mother Erin Doherty as Princess Anne, Philip and Elizabeth's second child and only daughter Jane Lapotaire as Princess Alice of Greece and Denmark, Philip's mother Charles Dance as Louis Mountbatten, 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma, Philip's ambitious uncle Josh O'Connor as Prince Charles, Philip and Elizabeth's eldest child and the heir apparent Geraldine Chaplin as Wallis, Duchess of Windsor, the Duke of Windsor's American wife Michael Maloney as Prime Minister Edward Heath Emerald Fennell as Camilla Shand Andrew Buchan as Andrew Parker Bowles The below actors are credited in the opening titles of single episodes in which they play a significant role. John Lithgow as Winston Churchill Clancy Brown as Lyndon B. Johnson, 36th President of the United States Mark Lewis Jones as Edward Millward Tim McMullan as Robin Woods Derek Jacobi as the Duke of Windsor, formerly King Edward VIII, who abdicated; known to his family as David Harry Treadaway as Roddy Llewellyn David Rintoul as Michael Adeane Charles Edwards as Martin Charteris Michael Thomas as Prince Henry, Duke of Gloucester, Elizabeth's uncle Penny Downie as Alice, Duchess of Gloucester, Prince Henry's wife Alan Gill as Winkie Pippa Winslow as Blinkie Mark Dexter as Tony Benn, Labour politician Lorraine Ashbourne as Barbara Castle, Labour politician Aden Gillett as Richard Crossman Sam Phillips as the Queen's equerry Sinéad Matthews as Marcia Williams, Labour politician who served as Harold Wilson's private secretary David Charles as George Thomas Stuart McQuarrie as George Thomson, Baron Thomson of Monifieth Patrick Ryecart as the Duke of Norfolk Connie M'Gadzah as Sydney Johnson Samuel West as Sir Anthony Blunt, Surveyor of the Queen's Pictures Angus Wright as Martin Furnival Jones, Director-General of MI5 Paul Hilton as Michael Straight Teresa Banham as Mary Wilson, wife of Prime Minister Harold Wilson Anthony Brophy as James Jesus Angleton, chief of CIA Counterintelligence Michael Simkins as Patrick Dean, British Ambassador to the United States Martin McDougall as W. Marvin Watson Suzanne Kopser as Lady Bird Johnson, First Lady of the United States Pip Torrens as Tommy Lascelles, Private Secretary to King George VI John Hollingworth as Lord Porchester, nicknamed Porchey Rupert Vansittart as Cecil Harmsworth King, newspaper publisher Julian Glover as Cecil Boyd-Rochfort Philippe Smolikowski as Alec Head John Finn as Arthur "Bull" Hancock Nia Roberts as Silvia Millward David Summer as Thomas Parry Henry Dimbleby as Richard Dimbleby, BBC broadcaster Alan David as Ben Bowen Thomas Henry Pettigrew as Neil Armstrong Felix Scott as Buzz Aldrin Andrew-Lee Potts as Michael Collins Sidney Jackson as Prince Edward Marlo Woolley as Prince Andrew Fred Broom as Cliff Michelmore Daniel Beales as Patrick Moore Kevin Eldon as Priest Michael Matthew Baldwin as Kenneth Harris Togo Igawa as Hirohito, Emperor of Japan David Wilmot as Arthur Scargill, president of the Yorkshire branch of the National Union of Mineworkers Stephen Riddle as Derek Parker Bowles Judith Alexander as Ann Parker Bowles Robert Benedetti-Hall as Major Bruce Shand Nesba Crenshaw as Rosalind Shand Louise Zegrean as young Edward "Ted" Heath Richard Walsh as Joe Gormley, president of the National Union of Mineworkers Jessica De Gouw as , girlfriend of Lord Snowdon Nancy Carroll as Lady Anne Glenconnor, lady-in-waiting to Princess Margaret and wife of Colin Tennant, 3rd Baron Glenconner Richard Teverson as Colin Tennant Martin Wimbush as Dr. Bodley Scott Dan Skinner as Alastair Burnet Tim Bentinck as John Betjeman.  By October 2017, "early production" had begun on an anticipated third and fourth season, and by the following January, Netflix confirmed the series had been renewed for a third and fourth season. The producers recast some roles with older actors every two seasons, as the timeline moves forward and the characters age. In October 2017, Olivia Colman was cast as Queen Elizabeth II for the third and fourth seasons. By January 2018, Helena Bonham Carter and Paul Bettany were in negotiations to portray Princess Margaret and Prince Philip, respectively, for these seasons. However, by the end of the month Bettany was forced to drop out due to the time commitment required. By the end of March 2018, Tobias Menzies was cast as Prince Philip for the third and fourth seasons. In early May 2018, Bonham Carter was confirmed to have been cast, alongside Jason Watkins as Prime Minister Harold Wilson. The next month, Ben Daniels was cast as Antony Armstrong-Jones for the third season, along with Erin Doherty joining the series as Princess Anne. A month later, Josh O'Connor and Marion Bailey were cast as Prince Charles and the Queen Mother, respectively, for the third and fourth seasons. In October 2018, Emerald Fennell was cast as Camilla Shand. In December 2018, Charles Dance was cast as Louis Mountbatten. In April 2019, Emma Corrin was cast as Lady Diana Spencer for the fourth season. The third season began filming in July 2018.. The third season was released on Netflix worldwide in its entirety on November 17, 2019, and consists of ten episodes.. Rotten Tomatoes reported a 88% approval rating for the third season based on 78 reviews, with an average rating of 8.38/10. Its critical consensus reads: "Olivia Colman shines, but as The Crown marches on in reliably luxurious fashion through time it finds space for the characters around her, providing ample opportunity for the appealing ensemble to gleam, too." On Metacritic, the season holds a score of 85 out of 100 based on 27 critics, indicating "universal acclaim". Writing for The Daily Telegraph, Anita Singh called the series "by far, the best soap opera on television." The Los Angeles Timess Lorraine Ali praised the attention to historical detail and cast performances, particularly Colman and Bonham Carter. The Guardians Lucy Mangan praised the "top-notch performances" from the cast, adding that the season is "so confident and so precision-engineered that you don't notice the defects". Daniel Fienberg for The Hollywood Reporter judged the cast transition to be a success, adding the series "remains a model for carefully crafted episodic storytelling". Some criticism was leveled at the lack of nuance from the writing. The BBC's Hugh Montgomery found the writing "increasingly on the nose", though the season was "the best yet". Alison Rowat from The Herald opined some scenes were "over-engineered" and dialogue "too on the nose", but nevertheless the series excels as a political drama. Vultures Jen Chaney similarly found the writing "a bit heavy-handed" in nevertheless "an absorbing, thoroughly enriching experience". Reviewing for Variety, Caroline Framke thought the series does not always succeed in humanizing the royal family, but when it does, it is "as compelling a portrait of how power warps individuals, and the world along with them, as exists on TV." Ed Power from The Independent was less complimentary, praising Colman's performance but finding the series somewhat "colourless".