'Batwoman' is an American superhero television series developed by Caroline Dries. It is based on the DC Comics character Batwoman, a costumed crime-fighter created by Geoff Johns, Grant Morrison, Greg Rucka, Mark Waid, and Keith Giffen, and is set in the Arrowverse, sharing continuity with the other television series of the universe. The series premiered on The CW on October 6, 2019 and is primarily filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, with location filming in Chicago, Illinois. Batwoman follows Kate Kane overcoming her demons and past to become Gotham City's new symbol of hope as the vigilante Batwoman. In May 2018, it was announced that Batwoman would appear in "Elseworlds", the Arrowverse series' 2018 crossover, with an announcement two months later that a series centered on the character was in development from Dries. Ruby Rose was cast in the title role in August of the same year. In January 2019, the series received a pilot order from the CW, to be considered for a series order in the 2019–20 television season. The show was picked up to series in May 2019 and in October 2019 a full season of 22 episodes was ordered.. Three years after billionaire philanthropist Bruce Wayne and his vigilante alter-ego Batman disappeared, his cousin Kate Kane sets out to overcome her demons and become a symbol of hope by protecting the streets of Gotham City as Batwoman..  Ruby Rose as Kate Kane / Batwoman: A highly trained street fighter and out lesbian who, armed with a fierce passion for social justice and a flair for speaking her mind, dedicates herself to defending Gotham in Batman's absence. Gracyn Shinyei portrays a younger Kate. Rachel Skarsten as Beth Kane / Alice: Kate's presumed dead sister and the leader of the Wonderland Gang whose personality goes from maniacal to charming and back again as she sets out to erode Gotham's sense of security. Ava Sleeth portrays a younger Beth. Meagan Tandy as Sophie Moore: A military academy graduate turned high-level Crows agent and Kate's estranged ex-girlfriend who serves as one of Gotham's protectors. Nicole Kang as Mary Hamilton: Kate's stepsister and a medical student/influencer-in-the-making who makes it her mission to provide aid to those living in Gotham's underserved communities. Camrus Johnson as Luke Fox: A staunch Dark Knight loyalist and the son of Lucius Fox who keeps Wayne Tower secure in Batman's absence but understands that Gotham needs a new hero. Elizabeth Anweis as Catherine Hamilton-Kane: Kate's stepmother and one of Gotham's most powerful citizens who made her fortune as a defense contractor and the CEO of Hamilton Dynamics. Melissa Benoist as Kara Danvers / SupergirlJon Cryer as Lex LuthorCaity Lotz as Sara Lance / White CanaryDominic Purcell as Mick Rory / Heat WaveKatherine McNamara as Mia SmoakLaMonica Garrett as Mar Novu / Monitor.  In May 2018, The CW president Mark Pedowitz and Arrow lead Stephen Amell announced at The CW's upfront presentation that Batwoman would be introduced in the Arrowverse series' 2018 crossover, "Elseworlds", which aired in December 2018, fighting alongside the other Arrowverse heroes, with Gotham City also appearing. In July 2018, it was reported that the CW was planning to develop a series around the character, to air in 2019 if picked up. The series, said to only be a "script-development deal", was written by Caroline Dries, who would also serve as an executive producer with Greg Berlanti, Sarah Schecter, and the character's co-creator Geoff Johns. The series would be produced by Berlanti Productions and Mad Ghost Productions in association with Warner Bros. Television. The following month, Pedowitz noted the pilot would be completed "for mid-season". In December 2018, Dries submitted a "strong" script for a potential pilot episode, according to Nellie Andreeva of Deadline Hollywood. That led to the series receiving a pilot order from the CW the next month, to be considered for a series order in the 2019–20 television season. As of April 2019, the series was considered "a lock" at The CW, and reportedly had a writing staff in place. On May 7, 2019, The CW ordered the show to series. On October 25, 2019, the series was picked up for a full season of 22 episodes. Casting for Kate Kane was expected to begin after the announcement of the intended series in May 2018, with the intention of casting an out lesbian actress. In August, Ruby Rose was cast as Kate Kane/Batwoman. In late January 2019, Meagan Tandy, Camrus Johnson, and Nicole Kang were cast in the series regular roles as Sophie Moore, , and Mary Hamilton, respectively. This was followed shortly by the casting of Rachel Skarsten as Alice, Dougray Scott as Jacob Kane, and Elizabeth Anweis as Catherine Hamilton-Kane. On August 21, 2019, Sam Littlefield was cast in a recurring role. In July, Burt Ward was cast for the Batwoman part in the 2019 Arrowverse crossover "Crisis on Infinite Earths". On October 4, 2019, Rachel Maddow and Sebastian Roché were cast in recurring capacities. The casting of Rose as Batwoman was met by backlash on social media and received intense criticism. DC Comics, which owns the rights to the longtime comic book superheroine Batwoman, reintroduced the character in 2006 as a lesbian of Jewish descent. Some online reactions attacked Rose for not being Jewish, while the main focus of the criticism was the assertion that the fact she identifies as gender fluid made her "not gay enough." Rose left Twitter and deactivated public commenting on her Instagram account following the backlash. The Batwoman origin story presented in the series is adapted from the Elegy comic book story arc. The events up to the fourth episode predate Batwoman's appearance in "Elseworlds", after which the events surpass the crossover. Production on the pilot episode began on March 4 and concluded on March 25, 2019, in Vancouver, British Columbia. Additional filming took place in Chicago, Illinois. David Nutter had been chosen to serve as director and executive producer on the pilot in January 2019, but by mid-February, left the project for personal reasons. Nutter remained an executive producer on the episode, with Marcos Siega replacing him as director and also serving as an executive producer. Filming for the rest of the season began on July 4 and is scheduled to conclude on December 2, 2019..  The series debuted on October 6, 2019. In New Zealand, the series is streamed on TVNZ’s free streaming streaming service TVNZ OnDemand. On May 16, 2019, The CW released the first official trailer for the series. The trailer received a negative reaction on YouTube, with viewers accusing it of an overemphasis on feminism. The trailer received 86,000 "likes" compared to 428,000 "dislikes" by August 22, 2019. Comic Book compared the backlash against a perceived agenda to that suffered by 2019's Captain Marvel and its actress Brie Larson. Alex Dalbey of The Daily Dot noted how the trailer received a range of angry reactions, but nonetheless felt that criticism of the trailer's focus on the protagonist being a woman was valid, which she found to be "forced" and "hamfisted" via the dialogue and choice of song. Dalbey also wrote: "It's 2019; we have Wonder Woman, Black Widow, Supergirl, Jessica Jones, Spider-Gwen, Captain Marvel and more. Batwoman isn't even the first lesbian superhero on the CW, there's also Thunder in Black Lightning." However, Jean Bentley of The Hollywood Reporter noted, "The character of Batwoman, aka Batman's cousin, Kate Kane, is the first lesbian superhero to headline her own series.".  On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the series holds an approval rating of 73% based on 45 reviews, with an average rating of 6.62/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Though it needs more time to develop its own identity to truly soar, Batwoman fun and stylish first season is a step in the right direction for representation and superhero shows alike." On Metacritic, the series has a weighted average score of 60 out of 100 based on reviews from 15 critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews".