"OK Boomer" is a catchphrase and internet meme that gained popularity among younger cohorts throughout 2019, used to dismiss or mock attitudes stereotypically attributed to the baby boomer generation. It is considered by some to be ageist.. "OK Boomer" was popularized as a reaction to a video of an unidentified older man, in which he declared that "millennials and Generation Z have the Peter Pan syndrome, they don't ever want to grow up; they think that the Utopian ideals that they have in their youth are somehow going to translate into adulthood". The video inspired the phrase "OK Boomer" as a retaliation and dismissal of the ideals of past generations that have shaped politics, economics and the environment so strongly. The first recorded instance of the phrase "OK boomer" appeared in a Reddit comment on 29 January 2009 , 10 years before popular usage. The term's recent usage can be traced back to 2015 on 4chan, but started to become popular from January 2019. The term gained media popularity in early November 2019 when articles about the phrase were published.. The phrase "OK Boomer" is a pejorative retort used to dismiss or mock perceived narrow-minded, outdated, negatively-judgemental, or condescending attitudes of older people, particularly baby boomers. The term has been used as a retort for perceived resistance to technological change, climate change denial, marginalization of minorities or opposition to younger generations' ideals. As of early November 2019, Videos tagged with #OkBoomer on TikTok had been viewed more than 44.6 million times.. Reactions have been mixed, with perspectives ranging from "the hatred is justified" to "the baby boomers are not to be blamed". It is considered by some to be highly ageist. The conservative radio host Bob Lonsberry went as far as labeling the word "boomer" as "the n-word of ageism" in a controversial tweet that was deleted not long after being posted. Furthermore, he stated that "being hip and flip does not make bigotry ok, nor is a derisive epithet acceptable because it is new". Stephen Colbert addressed the comparison in the segment 'Meanwhile...' on The Late Show, saying "clearly this fella needs to play the hot new game: Is This The New N-Word? No, it's not, thank you for playing." Writing for The Guardian, Bhaskar Sunkara criticized the meme in November 2019, saying that members of the baby boomer generation instead "need solidarity" as many "older workers and retirees are struggling to survive", as "half of Americans approaching age 65 have less than $25,000 in savings".. In early November 2019, New Zealand MP Chlöe Swarbrick, while giving a speech supporting a climate change bill in Parliament, promptly responded with "OK Boomer" after an older member of parliament interjected in disbelief to her claim that the average age of parliament was 49 years old. "OK Boomer" is a song written and produced by 20-year-old college student Johnathan Williams, which was shared on Twitter in July 2019. The song features cutting lyrics and him shouting "OK Boomer" repeatedly in response. 19-year-old Peter Kuli then published a remix of the song on SoundCloud that circulated on TikTok, fueling the meme even further, serving as an anthem. During halftime of the Harvard-Yale football game played on 23 November 2019, climate change protesters interrupted the game by rushing the field and remaining even after they were asked to leave, instead chanting "OK Boomer".. A hoodie designed by a US art student bearing the phrase, followed by "Have a terrible day", had generated more than 25,000 in sales by 1 November 2019. Multiple trademark applications have been filed for the repartee, including one from Fox Media, with the intent to launch "an on-going television series featuring reality competition, comedy and game shows."