Dua Lipa is an English singer, songwriter and model. After working as a model, she signed with Warner Music Group in 2015 and soon released her first song, "New Love". Her eponymous debut album was released in 2017, and contained seven singles, including two UK top-ten singles "Be the One" and "IDGAF" and the UK number-one single "New Rules", which also reached number six in the United States. The single "One Kiss" with Calvin Harris reached number one in the UK, and became the longest running number one for a female artist in 2018. The success of the singles helped her self-titled album to become the most streamed female album ever on Spotify, and to achieve platinum in several countries, including the UK and the US. In late 2019, she released the lead single "Don't Start Now" from her upcoming second album, which is planned to be released in 2020. Lipa has been the recipient of three Brit Awards and two Grammy Awards.. Dua Lipa was born in Westminster, London to Kosovo Albanian parents. Her father Dukagjin Lipa is a marketing manager who is also lead vocalist in a Kosovan rock band, Oda. Her mother Anesa Lipa works in tourism. Her parents are originally from Kosovo but left Pristina in 1992. Her father Dukagjin is the son of historian Seit Lipa who was the head of the Kosovo Institute of History from 1990 to 1995. Lipa has two younger siblings. She attended Sylvia Young Theatre School part-time before moving to Kosovo with her family in 2006 when her father had been offered a job. There she attended the Mileniumi i Tretë school in Pristina. Her first name means "love" in Albanian. Lipa explained "Now I'm proud of it. Now I am. But when I was growing up, all I wanted was to be called Hannah, Sarah, Ella… anything normal. Because with Dua you had to explain: I'm from Kosovo." At the age of 14, Lipa began posting covers of her favourite songs by artists such as Pink and Nelly Furtado on YouTube. At the age of 15, she moved back to London with aspirations of becoming a singer. Lipa lived with a friend and studied at Parliament Hill School, returning to the Sylvia Young Theatre School on Saturdays. She began working as a model for the online catalogue ASOS Marketplace when she was 16. She also worked as a hostess. In 2013, she starred in a television advertisement for The X Factor..  In 2015, Lipa began working on her debut album for Warner Music Group. In August 2015, she released her first single "New Love", produced by Emile Haynie and Andrew Wyatt. She released her second single "Be the One", in October 2015. "Be the One" achieved success across Europe, reaching number one in Belgium, Poland and Slovakia, as well as charting within the top 10 in over 11 European territories. In Australia and New Zealand, the song became an airplay success, reaching numbers 6 and 20 respectively. Lipa describes her musical style as "dark pop". On 30 November 2015, she was revealed as one of the acts on the BBC Sound of... 2016 long list. Her first tour in the UK and Europe began in January 2016. In November 2016, Lipa concluded her tour through Europe. On 18 February 2016, Lipa released her third single "Last Dance", followed by "Hotter than Hell" on 6 May. "Hotter than Hell" became a hit worldwide, especially in the UK, where it peaked at number 15. On 26 August, her fifth overall single "Blow Your Mind , "New Rules" and "No Lie". In January 2018, Lipa received nominations in five categories at the Brit Awards – more nominations than any other artist that year. She was nominated for British Female Solo Artist, British Breakthrough Act, MasterCard British Album of the Year for Dua Lipa, British Single of The Year and British Video of The Year for "New Rules". This was the first time that a female artist had received five nominations. She performed at the awards ceremony held on 21 February at the O2 Arena in London and won the awards for British Female Solo Artist and British Breakthrough Act. Lipa announced via social media that she had begun working on new material for her second album. She is working with MNEK, who previously co-wrote her single "IDGAF". The singer also collaborated with electronic music producer Whethan on a song called "High" for the Fifty Shades Freed soundtrack released in February 2018. On 6 April 2018, Lipa and Calvin Harris released the single "One Kiss" which topped the UK Singles Chart on 20 April, making it Lipa's second UK number one; Lipa provided the vocals and is also credited as a writer. She performed in the opening ceremony of the 2018 UEFA Champions League Final in Kiev on 26 May. In May 2018, she said that her second album, likely released in 2019, would be heavily influenced by acts such as disco kingpin Nile Rodgers who also took active part in studio recordings, the late Prince and OutKast. It was also reported that she plans to have collaborations with other artists coming out later in 2018, such as one with Mark Ronson and Diplo's newly-formed superduo Silk City. Ronson later confirmed the song's title would be "Electricity". The song was released on 9 September. Lipa was also featured in "If Only", a song from Italian singer Andrea Bocelli sixteenth studio album Sì. Lipa performed at F1 Singapore Grand Prix in September. In the same month, Lipa was chosen as the face of British car brand Jaguar's new electric car, I-PACE. The brand made a special remix of Lipa's new released song "Want To", and fans around the world can create their own version of Dua Lipa x Jaguar's song on the Join The Pace website based on their own driving behaviour or the music they listen to, and share it on social media. Shortly after announcing the collaboration, Jaguar and Lipa set the world record for the "most remixed song ever". Lipa released the super deluxe edition of Dua Lipa, titled Complete Edition, with three new songs and featured with her previous collaborations with various artists in 19 October. This included a collaboration with Blackpink called "Kiss and Make Up". Lipa partnered with Yves Saint Laurent as the face for their Fragrance called Libre in August 2019. She released the lead single "Don't Start Now" from her upcoming second studio album on 31 October 2019.. Dua Lipa's music is primarily pop. Her music has also been described as dark pop, dance-pop, synth-pop, R&B, dream pop and alternative pop.. In 2016, Lipa and her father set up the Sunny Hill Foundation in Pristina to donate to the citizens of Kosovo, her parents' home country. In August 2018, Lipa hosted her own festival to raise money for the Sunny Hill Foundation, called the SunnyHill Festival where she also performed. The Mayor of Pristina, Shpend Ahmeti then awarded Lipa the Key to Pristina the first time such an honour had ever been granted. She hosted the festival for the second year in a row in 2019, with Miley Cyrus as one of the performers.. * Dua Lipa . ;Headlining 