'American Horror Story: 1984' is the ninth season of the FX horror anthology television series American Horror Story, created by Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk. It premiered on September 18, 2019, and concluded on November 13, 2019. The season has been described as being heavily influenced by classic horror slasher films such as Friday the 13th and Halloween. Returning cast members from previous seasons include Emma Roberts, Billie Lourd, Leslie Grossman, Cody Fern, John Carroll Lynch, Leslie Jordan, Tanya Clarke, Lily Rabe, Dylan McDermott, and Finn Wittrock, along with new cast members Matthew Morrison, Gus Kenworthy, Angelica Ross, and Zach Villa. 1984 marks the first season to not feature series mainstays Evan Peters and Sarah Paulson.. * Emma Roberts as Brooke Thompson, a wide-eyed ingenue whose new friends coerce her into spending the summer at Camp Redwood. Billie Lourd as Montana Duke, a spunky and motivated aerobics enthusiast. Leslie Grossman as Margaret Booth, owner of Camp Redwood and sole survivor of Mr. Jingles' attack. Cody Fern as Xavier Plympton, an aerobics instructor who lands a summer gig as a counselor at Camp Redwood. Matthew Morrison as Trevor Kirchner, Camp Redwood's activities director who has a fling with Montana. Gus Kenworthy as Chet Clancy, an ex-Olympian who used to take anabolic steroids. John Carroll Lynch as Benjamin Richter / Mr. Jingles, an escaped convict and murderer who collects his victim's ears. Angelica Ross as Donna Chambers, PhD psychology student, who poses as Rita, a nurse at Camp Redwood. Zach Villa as Richard Ramirez, a serial killer who stalks Brooke and allies himself with Margaret. DeRon Horton as Ray Powell, Chet's fun-loving friend. Orla Brady as Dr. Karen Hopple, head of the asylum that Benjamin escaped from. Lou Taylor Pucci as Jonas Shevoore, the ghost of a former camp counselor. Tara Karsian as Chef Bertie, cook at Camp Redwood. Emma Meisel as Midge, one of the victims of Mr. Jingles. Kat Solko as Helen, one of the victims of Mr. Jingles. Conor Donnally as Eddie, one of the victims of Mr. Jingles. Sean Liang as Wide Load, one of the pranksters pretending to be Mr. Jingles. Leslie Jordan as Courtney, Margaret's assistant.Lily Rabe as Lavinia Richter, Benjamin's mother.Dylan McDermott as Bruce, a murderous hitchhiker. Mitch Pileggi as Art, Dr. Hopple's colleague. Don Swayze as Roy, owner of a gas station near Camp Redwood. Todd Stashwick as Blake, Xavier's former agent. Steven Culp as Mr. Thompson, Brooke's father. Spencer Neville as Joey Cavanaugh, Brooke's late fiancé. Dreama Walker as Rita, the Camp Redwood nurse whose identity is stolen by Donna. Mark Daugherty as Chan, one of the young men who wanted to join Omega XI, a fraternity of which Ray was a member. Tim Russ as David Chambers, Donna's murderous father. Richard Gunn as a chief deputy investigating the murders at Camp Redwood. Nick Chinlund as a prison warden. Tanya Clarke as Lorraine Richter, Benjamin's wife in 1989. Yvonne Zima as Red, a fan of Ramirez. Eric Staves as Dustin, a birdwatcher who visits Camp Redwood in 1989. Connor Cain as young Benjamin in 1948. Stefanie Black as Stacey Phillips, a National Enquirer writer fascinated with the Camp Redwood murders. Finn Wittrock as Bobby Richter, Benjamin and Lorraine's son..  On January 12, 2017, American Horror Story was renewed for a ninth season, with a two-season renewal alongside Apocalypse, set to air in 2019. On April 10, 2019, series co-creator Ryan Murphy announced that the title of the season would be 1984. The season has been described as being heavily influenced by classic horror slasher films such as Friday the 13th, A Nightmare on Elm Street, and Halloween. On June 24, 2019, FX announced that the season would premiere on September 18, 2019. The official trailer for the season was released on August 26, 2019. On September 12, 2019, Murphy revealed the opening credits for 1984 via his Instagram account. He explained that it was inspired by Corey Vega's fan-made concept, which strongly impressed him. As a result, he invited Vega to work with series veteran collaborator Kyle Cooper on the official sequence. Later that month, FX officially released the promo posters for the season, confirming the main cast's character names. On October 17, 2019, it was announced that 1984 would conclude with its ninth episode, one less than the 10 episodes that were originally ordered. This makes it the shortest season in the entire series, and the third season after Murder House and Hotel to reduce its original episode count. On February 6, 2019, Murphy revealed that Emma Roberts and series newcomer Gus Kenworthy would star in the season. In July 2019, Angelica Ross announced that she would have a series regular role in the season. Later that month, Billie Lourd, Cody Fern, Leslie Grossman, and John Carroll Lynch were confirmed to be returning to the series, with new cast members Matthew Morrison, DeRon Horton, and Zach Villa. In October 2019, filming pictures confirmed that original cast member Dylan McDermott would appear in the season. Later that month, series veteran Lily Rabe confirmed via her Instagram account that she would appear in the seventh episode of the season. In November 2019, it was confirmed that Finn Wittrock would return for the season finale. On April 2, 2019, series mainstay Evan Peters, who had starred in all eight previous seasons, announced he would not appear in this season. On May 23, 2019, Billy Eichner, who appeared in Cult and Apocalypse, stated that he would not be returning in the season. On July 8, 2019, it was reported by Deadline Hollywood that Sarah Paulson would have a smaller role in 1984 than in previous seasons, due to her commitments to Murphy's Netflix series Ratched. However, in October 2019, Paulson herself confirmed that she would not appear in 1984 as originally planned. On July 11, 2019, Murphy confirmed the season had begun filming..  The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes gave the season a 95% "certified fresh" approval rating, with an average rating of 7.94/10, based on 5 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads: "A near-perfect blend of slasher tropes and American Horror Storys trademark twists, 1984 is a bloody good time."