Goo Ha-ra ..  Goo was born on January 13, 1991, in Gwangju, South Korea. She participated in SM Entertainment's youth appearance tournament in 2005. In 2007, she unsuccessfully auditioned to join JYP Entertainment. She attended Sungshin Women's University. Goo joined the girl group Kara in 2008, following the departure of former member Kim Sung-hee. In October 2009, she became a cast member of the KBS' reality show Invincible Youth. In 2011, Goo made her acting debut in SBS City Hunter. She starred as Choi Da-hye, the daughter of South Korea's president. In November 2011, she and Nicole Jung became the new MCs for Inkigayo. They left the show on August 19, 2012. In 2013, she collaborated with Japanese musician and songwriter Fukuyama Masaharu to record a song called "Magic of Love" in Korean under the project group, Hara+. The song was used as a soundtrack for FujiTV's drama Galileo, which Masaharu starred in. In October 2013, she was appointed as the blood donation ambassador for the Hanmaum Blood Bank. Her own reality show titled On & Off aired on December 29, 2014 on MBC Music. In January 2015, she started hosting KBS' idol beauty show A Style For You along with Super Junior's Kim Heechul, EXID's Hani and Sistar's Bora. In June 2015, she released a beauty book titled Nail Hara. In July 2015, Goo debuted as a solo artist with the release of the EP Alohara , which peaked at #4 domestically. The lead single "Choco Chip Cookies" features South Korean rapper Giriboy. In October 2015, Goo joined the variety show Shaolin Clenched Fists. On January 15, 2016, Goo left DSP Media due to the expiration of her contract with the company, prompting Kara to go on an indefinite hiatus. She then joined KeyEast. In December 2016, she featured in Thunder's single, "Sign". In August 2017, Goo starred in a web movie titled Sound of a Footstep. In November 2017, Goo joined the variety show Seoul Mate. In January 2018, she released a soundtrack for the drama Jugglers, titled "On A Good Day". In April 2018, she hosted the JTBC's beauty show My Mad Beauty Diary. In July, she was named honorary ambassador for the 6th Animal Film Festival. In January 2019, Content Y, a subsidiary of Goo's agency, KeyEast, refused to renew her contract following its expiration amid her dispute with her former boyfriend.. On January 5, 2010, during an appearance on the SBS reality show Strong Heart, Goo admitted to getting dental and minor facial cosmetic surgery. She stated that she had always had double eyelids, but had surgery to make them more defined. On January 19, 2011, it was announced that Goo would be terminating her contract with her label DSP Media along with three other members of Kara, and a lawsuit was filed on their behalf. Later that day, it was announced that she would discontinue her involvement with the suit and had rejoined the company, as she apparently was not fully aware of the lawsuit's details. Goo dated hairdresser Choi Jong-bum after the two first met on the set of the beauty TV program My Mad Beauty Diary. At around 1 a.m of September 13, 2018, Choi broke into Goo's house drunk while she was sleeping and started an argument that escalated into violent assault, when he allegedly tried to break up with her. The police arrived at Goo’s house after Choi reported her for assault. Goo claimed that the incident was two-sided and that both parties posted images of the aftermath to the internet. During the incident, Goo suffered from uterus and vagina hemorrhage, and was also diagnosed with “cervical sprain”, “facial contusions and sprain”, “lower leg contusions and sprain”, and “right forearm and additional sprains.” Following this, Goo filed a lawsuit against Choi for threatening to release a sex video of her to end her career, and the sex video was submitted to the court where the judge confirmed the video privately. During the first trial held on April 18, 2019, Choi denied most charges but admitted that he was responsible only for the destruction of property. In August, he was acquitted of the charge of filming the sex video without permission but was sentenced to one year and six months in prison, suspended for three years of probation after being convicted of threatening to upload the sex video, coercing, physically assaulting, and destroying Goo's property. On May 26, 2019, Goo attempted suicide in her apartment and was immediately taken to hospital, after which she apologized for worrying her fans.. On November 24, 2019, Goo was found dead at her home in Cheongdam-dong, Gangnam, with her cause of death a possible suicide. Police found a suicide note written by Goo, and concluded that there was no foul play as she was seen on CCTV footage returning home at 12:40 am, with no further visitors except for the housekeeper that found her body at 6 pm the same day. An autopsy was not performed after the police consulted the prosecutor in-charge and took into consideration her family's request, and the body was handed over to her family on November 26. Goo's death occurred over a month after her close friend and fellow idol Sulli had committed suicide. Goo's funeral was privately held at Gangnam Severance Hospital by family members and friends, while a separate memorial service for fans took place on November 25–26 in in Gangnam. Goo's body was cremated and her remains were enshrined at the in Bundang, Gyeonggi-do. Following her death, a petition was submitted to the Blue House with over 200,000 signatures demanding a more severe punishment for filming sexual acts without consent and distributing it. Moreover, it was revealed that Goo had helped reporter Kang Kyung-yoon investigate Jung Joon-young’s chatroom case prior to her death.