'For All Mankind' is an American science fiction web television series created and written by Ronald D. Moore, Matt Wolpert and Ben Nedivi and produced for Apple TV+. The series dramatizes an alternate history depicting "what would have happened if the global space race had never ended" after the Soviet Union succeeds in the first manned Moon landing. For All Mankind premiered on November 1, 2019 and was renewed for a second season in October 2019, several weeks before the first episode was made available to the public or subscribers.. The first crewed mission to the Moon during the Space Race in the late 1960s was a global success for NASA and the United States. But this drama answers the question: "What if the Space Race had never ended?" In an alternate timeline, the USSR beats the US to the Moon; thus setting its first Russian cosmonaut, Alexei Leonov, on it. Dubbed as "Red Moon", this event leaves NASA in devastation. This doesn't mean those working there have given up as they challenge the Soviet Union a second time to show that there is no giving up on hope..  Joel Kinnaman as Edward Baldwin Michael Dorman as Gordo Stevens Wrenn Schmidt as Margo Madison Sarah Jones as Tracy Stevens Shantel VanSanten as Karen Baldwin Jodi Balfour as Ellen Waverly Chris Agos as Buzz Aldrin Matt Battaglia as John Glenn Chris Bauer as Deke Slayton Jeff Branson as Neil Armstrong Dan Donohue as Thomas O. Paine Colm Feore as Wernher von Braun Ryan Kennedy as Michael Collins Eric Ladin as Gene Kranz Steven Pritchard as Pete Conrad Rebecca Wisocky as Marge Slayton Tait Blum as Shane Baldwin .  According to Ronald D. Moore, the idea of the show came about during lunch with former NASA astronaut Garrett Reisman, when they discussed the possibility of an alternate history in which the Soviets reached the Moon before the Americans. On December 15, 2017, it was announced that Apple had given the production a one-season series order. The series was created by Ronald D. Moore. Moore, Matt Wolpert, and Ben Nedivi will jointly script and executive produce the drama. Maril Davis acted as Executive Producer. Production companies involved with the series are to include Sony Pictures Television and Tall Ship Productions. On October 5, 2018, it was announced that the series had been officially titled For All Mankind. In August 2018, it was announced that Joel Kinnaman, Michael Dorman, Sarah Jones, Shantel VanSanten, and Wrenn Schmidt had been cast in main roles and that Eric Ladin, Arturo Del Puerto, and Rebecca Wisocky would appear in a recurring capacity. On October 5, 2018, it was reported that Jodi Balfour had been cast in a series regular role. Principal photography for the series commenced in August 2018 in Los Angeles, California. In March 2019, The New York Times reported that filming had concluded.. The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 74% approval rating with an average rating of 7.01/10, based on 35 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, "Though it shoots for the moon and falls somewhere in orbit, For All Mankinds impressive vision of history has the potential for real liftoff if it leans into the things that set it apart instead of settling for more of the same." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 65 out of 100 based on 21 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".