Jeanine Áñez Chávez is a Bolivian politician and lawyer who assumed the role of interim President of Bolivia after the resignation of the government of Evo Morales. She was previously an opposition senator from Beni. Her political position has been described as right-wing and anti-Morales.. Áñez passed the bar in 1991. She was formerly a media presenter and director at Totalvision. Between 2006 and 2008, she served as a constituent assemblywoman for the drafting of the new constitutional charter. She was a member of the Constituent Assembly for the commission of organization and structure of the country, also working as part of the Judiciary. In 2010, she was elected to the Senate as a member of the party Plan Progress for Bolivia-National Convergence , which hold a majority in the assembly and dubbed the session "illegal". According to CNN, the absence of MAS deputies meant that Áñez did not have the required parliamentary quorum in order to legally be appointed acting president. Furthermore, the preceding President of the Senate, Adriana Salvatierra, contended that although her resignation was presented, it was never accepted by the Senate, and therefore, Salvatierra remained the President of the Senate. Brazil and the United States recognized Áñez as the acting president of Bolivia. On 14 November 2019 the Senate accepted Salvatierra's resignation and elected Mónica Eva Copa from the Movement for Socialism as the new president. Amid a pledge to "rebuild democracy", Añez unveiled her new cabinet. Her senior ministers included prominent businesspeople from Santa Cruz de la Sierra. Her government did not include any members of the indigenous peoples in Bolivia, which The Guardian described as a sign that she did "not intend to reach across the country's deep political and ethnic divide". Her designated interior minister vowed to "hunt down" his predecessor, which reportedly stroked fears of a "witch-hunt" against members of Morales' administration. She further stated that Morales would not be permitted to run in an upcoming election for a fourth term, should he return to Bolivia. In the face of protests against the interim government, Áñez called for police to restore order and, on 14 November, issued a decree that would exempt the military from any type of criminal responsibility when maintaining order. On 15 November, security forces fired upon protesting coca farmers in Cochabamba, resulting in nine deaths, with dozens more injured.. Añez is described as a right-wing religious conservative and has been a critic of Evo Morales. Áñez has spoken out against the proliferation of drug trafficking in South America. In 2017, her nephew was arrested in Brazil for smuggling 480 kilos of drugs. The security minister Carlos Romero criticized Áñez and said that her position in the senate was "rogue" because of the relationship; Áñez responded by saying that she is not responsible for her nephew's actions, and criticized Romero because of his position in the government by saying that he is "responsible for the growth of drug trafficking". It was later revealed that another Bolivian arrested with drugs at the same time was the nephew of another politician, this time belonging to the MAS ruling party. In early 2019, Áñez called for an investigation into prison wardens in Beni after speaking to victims of rape and abuse on the part of guards. She aimed to set a precedent to bring in new legislation that can be upheld. She describes herself as a Christian and held up a large Bible while declaring herself the interim president; this was described by The Guardian as an "explicit rebuke" of Morales, who has a strained history with the Catholic Church and has expressed support for indigenous religious traditions. Under Morales, a new Constitution was approved by referendum that gave Christianity equal status to other religions. Áñez recognized Juan Guaidó as acting president of Venezuela in the 2019 Venezuelan presidential crisis, 24 hours after taking office. Her interim government also severed diplomatic relations with Venezuela's Maduro government, giving its diplomats 72 hours to leave the country.. Through social media, Áñez has made remarks towards indigenous peoples that have been described as "racist" by The Guardian, "anti-indigenous" by the Agence France-Press, and "provocative" by the New York Times. Around 41% of the population of Bolivia identifies itself as indigenous. On Twitter, she called the Aymara people's New Year celebration "satanic" and said that "nobody can replace God", and has implied that indigenous people were not genuine for wearing shoes. However, as acting president, Áñez has stated that she would keep the wiphala, the flag of indigenous Bolivian communities, as a co-official Flag of Bolivia, as it had been under Morales, declaring that she was committed to the fundamental task of "highlighting the unity plural and diverse" nation of Bolivia. Despite this, María Galindo, an outspoken critic of Morales, described the government of Áñez as "anti-indigenous.". Áñez is married to Héctor Hernando Hincapié Carvajal, a Colombian politician in the Colombian Conservative Party.