Yoda is a fictional character in the Star Wars universe, first appearing in the 1980 film The Empire Strikes Back. The character is a small, green humanoid alien. In his first appearance in the original trilogy, the Force Ghost of Jedi master Obi-wan Kenobi describes Yoda as a Jedi master who trained him. While asking Luke Skywalker to seek Jedi training from Yoda, which Luke does, and later uses it to fight against the Galactic Empire. The characters reappears in Return of the Jedi where he reveals his age to be 900, Yoda was the oldest living character in the Star Wars franchise. In the prequel trilogy set a generation before the original trilogy, Yoda is among the most powerful members of the Jedi Order which he leads along other Jedi members, including humans Mace Windu, and later Obi-wan Kenobi, all also become generals of clone troopers during the Clone Wars. Yoda also trained all the Jedi children, before they were assigned a Jedi master, the only other padawan known to be trained by Yoda into adulthood is Count Dooku, who betrayed Yoda and the Jedi after falling to the darkside to become Darth Tyranus . Neither has dialogue, only Yoda, who speaks in backwards sentences. Very little is known about Yoda's alien species, though all three are powerful in The Force.. Frank Oz provided Yoda's voice in each film and used his skills as a puppeteer in the original trilogy and Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace. For some walking scenes in Episodes V and I, dwarf actors Deep Roy and Warwick Davis appeared in costume as Yoda ; Ki-Adi-Mundi, Kit Fisto and eventually Luke Skywalker. During the animated series Star Wars: Clone Wars, set between Attack of the Clones and Revenge of the Sith, he mentions that he trained another one of the leaders on the Jedi Council, Master Oppo Rancisis. In the Star Wars prequel films, he instructs several younglings in the Jedi Temple before they are assigned to a master. This was displayed in a scene in Attack of the Clones. In The Empire Strikes Back he mentions that he had been training Jedi "for 800 years", which means he must have been a Master Jedi for quite some time before that..  Yoda makes his first film appearance in The Empire Strikes Back. Luke Skywalker escape. Meanwhile, on Vjun, Count Dooku awaits Yoda in the Château Malreaux, the manor of the long since waned aristocratic clan Malreaux. As the group of Jedi land on Vjun they are forced to separate: Yoda goes to meet with Dooku, and the Padawans follow mysterious disruptions in the Force felt by Whie. Soon, Ventress captures the Padawans. She reveals to Whie that the Château is in fact his house, and the insane house-woman was his mother, Lady "Whirry" Malreaux. Meanwhile, Yoda meets with Dooku, and discovers that Dooku's summons is indeed a feint. The two masters engage in a tense debate about the ways of the Force, and reminiscence about Dooku's childhood in the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. In the end, Yoda encourages his former apprentice to leave the dark side and Darth Sidious forever. Dooku, hands shaking, is on the verge of answering when an assistant informs him of Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi's arrival in the mansion, dispatched there by the Jedi Council, on behalf of Palpatine. Convinced that the legendary duo are replacements for him, Dooku is overcome by jealousy and throws his assistant out the window. Yoda is forced to save Whirry from falling to her death, and then parry Dooku's follow-up lightsaber attack. Even though Dooku wounds him, Yoda, unfazed, does not yield to the dark side. Yoda recovers, and a short lightsaber battle ensues. Before leaping from the window to escape, Dooku tells Yoda of a missile approaching from space, aimed at the house, and everyone in it. Yoda stops the missile, inevitably allowing Dooku and Ventress time to escape.. In 2007, Yoda was selected by Empire magazine as the "25th greatest movie character of all time". On their list of the 100 Greatest Fictional Characters, Fandomania.com ranked Yoda at number 60. Yoda also appears in Disney's Star Tours: The Adventures Continue attraction, where he is voiced by his original voice actor, Frank Oz. A life-size statue of Yoda greets visitors to Lucasfilm's Letterman Digital Arts Center in San Francisco's Presidio, the headquarters of Industrial Light and Magic. American musician and parody artist "Weird Al" Yankovic used the character as inspiration for a parody of The Kinks' "Lola", in a song entitled "Yoda." Hawaiian the language is which Yoda's language the most resembles, claims linguistics professor David Ager from Queen Mary University of London. In 2019, discount store Poundland used the voice of Yoda at its self-service checkouts in stores across the United Kingdom.TomTom has included a "Yoda" voice as one of the Celebrity GPS voicings in their "Star Wars" voice series.Lego's Yoda minifigure was the first of their figures to be shorter than the other toys in the Lego Star Wars line; it has shorter legs than the other action figures. Yoda appears in a television series based on the Lego Star Wars toys, created by the Lego company, among them Lego Star Wars: The Yoda Chronicles, Lego Star Wars: The Padawan Menace, Star Wars: The New Yoda Chronicles, and Lego Star Wars: Droid Tales.