'Housefull 4' is a 2019 Indian Hindi-language comedy film directed by Farhad Samji and produced by Sajid Nadiadwala under Nadiadwala Grandson Entertainment. The film is the fourth installment of Housefull franchise, and stars an ensemble cast of Akshay Kumar, Riteish Deshmukh, Bobby Deol, Kriti Sanon, Pooja Hegde and Kriti Kharbanda. The film was supposed to be directed by Sajid Khan, who had also directed the first two installments, but was replaced by Farhad Samji due to Me Too allegations. Nadiadwala claimed the film to be the highest budgeted Indian comedy film. The story is based on reincarnation, spanning a period of 600 years from 1419 to 2019. The film was theatrically released in India on 25 October 2019 during the occasion of Diwali with negative reviews from critics but became a box-office success.. * Akshay Kumar as Rajkumar Bala Dev Singh / Harry Riteish Deshmukh as Bangdu Maharaj / Roy Bobby Deol as Dharamputra / Max Kriti Sanon as Rajkumari Madhu / Kriti Pooja Hegde as Rajkumari Mala / Pooja Kriti Kharbanda as Rajkumari Meena / Neha Chunky Pandey as Pehla Pasta / Akhri Pasta Rana Daggubati as Raja Gama / Pappu Rangeela Ranjeet as Maharaja Surya Singh Rana / Thakral Sharad Kelkar as Suryabhan / Michael Bhai Johnny Lever as Winston Churchgate Jamie Lever as Giggly Nawazuddin Siddiqui as Ramsey Baba Manoj Pahwa as Big Bhai Parikshit Sahni as Maharaja Parikshitap Sham Mashalkar as Darbari Prithvi Zutshi as Siskeria Saurabh Srivastava as Lakhan. On 27 September official trailer of the film was launched by Fox Star Studios. Housefull 4 was theatrically released in India on 25 October 2019 during the Diwali festival..  Koimoi gave 3.5 stars out of 5 and said, "Akshay Kumar, Riteish Deshmukh & Gang Gift Us Punlimited Fun This Diwali." Komal Nahta of Film Information said, "Housefull 4 is not a very entertaining fare and has ordinary merits. On the one hand is the festival period which will work in its favour and on the other hand is the word of mouth which will work against its interests." Sreeparna Sengupta of The Times of India, giving two and half stars out of five, noted that due to general silliness, there were mindless comic moments and scenes of low-brow humour in the film. She opined that it was a drag in portions and jokes were stale. She concluded, "Overall, Housefull 4 ends up as a complete mad caper. Which, if you're a fan of the Housefull brand of comedy, might appeal to you. But if you are not, then proceed with caution. Trade analyst and critic Taran Adarsh gave the film one and half stars out of five and called it as "disappointing". Criticising writing, direction and over the top performances, he noted that it is the weakest film in Housefull franchise, which failed to make audience laugh. Housefull 4s opening day domestic collection was 19.08 crore. On the second day, the film collected 18.81 crore. On the third day, the film collected 15.33 crore, taking total opening weekend collection to 53.22 crore. , with a gross of 231.32 crore in India and 50.46 crore overseas, the film has a worldwide gross collection of 281.78 crore and have become sixth Highest gross Bollywood movie of 2019.. The film's music is composed by Sohail Sen, Farhad Samji and Sandeep Shirodkar, with lyrics written by Farhad Samji, Sameer Anjaan and Vayu. Devi Sri Prasad's original composition of "Ammudu, Let's Do Kummudu" from the Telugu movie Khaidi No. 150 was reused in the song "The Bhoot Song".. Director Sajid Khan was originally scheduled to direct the film; in October 2018, in the wake of the ongoing "Me Too" movement in India, Khan was accused by actresses Saloni Chopra, Rachel White and journalist Kma Upadhyay of sexual assault and misconduct. Following the accusations, Khan tweeted that he would step down as director, while lead actor Akshay Kumar tweeted that he was cancelling shooting for the film and that he would not work with the accused until the investigation was complete. Later on, Nana Patekar too left the production in the wake of allegations of sexual harassment by Tanushree Dutta. However, later on, he was given clean chit by investigation agencies and now it is to be looked whether he will be called again for the movie since he was removed from the movie only because he was accused. Farhad Samji, who co-directed Housefull 3 has replaced Sajid Khan as the director.