Ariana Grande-Butera , Grande experimented with trap while maintaining her characteristic pop-R&B tones; both debuted at number one in several countries and were acclaimed by music critics. The former won a Grammy for Best Pop Vocal Album and spawned the international top three single "No Tears Left to Cry", while the latter was nominated for Album of the Year at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards and broke several streaming records upon release. Grande became the first solo artist to hold the top three spots on the Billboard Hot 100 simultaneously when "7 Rings", "Break Up with Your Girlfriend, I'm Bored" and "Thank U, Next" did so in 2019. The first two made Grande the first woman in the UK to succeed herself at the top spot. She is also the first artist to have the lead singles from each of their first five studio albums debut within the top ten in the US. Grande has received various accolades, including one Grammy Award, one Brit Award, two Billboard Music Awards, three American Music Awards, and several Guinness World Records. All five of Grande's full-length albums have been certified platinum or better by the RIAA. As one of the leading streaming pioneers in the world, she has amassed over 40 billion streams on platforms like YouTube, Spotify, and Apple Music. She is the most followed female on the two former, while being the most listened female on the latter two. An influential figure on social media, she is an outspoken feminist and supporter for LGBT rights. She asserts control over her public image and is known for her ponytail hairdo and bold fashion statements. In February 2019, she became the most followed woman on Instagram. Forbes ranked her amongst the highest-paid celebrities in 2019, and Time named Grande as one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2016 and 2019. Billboard recognized her as the "" in 2018, and declared her the most accomplished female artist to debut in the 2010s..  Ariana Grande-Butera was born on June 26, 1993, in Boca Raton, Florida. She is the daughter of Joan Grande, the Brooklyn-born CEO of Hose-McCann Communications, a manufacturer of communications and safety equipment, and Edward Butera, a graphic design firm owner in Boca Raton. Grande is of Italian descent, and she refers to herself as an Italian American of "half Sicilian and half Abruzzese" descent. She has an older half-brother, Frankie Grande, an entertainer and producer, and she has a close relationship with her maternal grandmother, Marjorie Grande. Grande's family moved from New York to Florida when her mother was pregnant with her, and her parents separated when she was around 9 or 10 years old. As a child, Grande performed with the Fort Lauderdale Children's Theater, playing her first role as the title character in Annie. She also performed in the musicals The Wizard of Oz and Beauty and the Beast. At the age of 8, she performed at a karaoke lounge on a cruise ship and with various orchestras such as South Florida's Philharmonic, Florida Sunshine Pops and Symphonic Orchestras, and she made her first national television appearance singing "The Star-Spangled Banner" for the Florida Panthers. She attended Pine Crest School and North Broward Preparatory School. By age 13, she became serious about pursuing a music career, though she still concentrated on theater. When she first arrived in Los Angeles to meet with her managers, she expressed a desire to record an R&B album: "I was like, 'I want to make an R&B album,' They were like 'Um, that's a helluva goal! Who is going to buy a 14-year-old's R&B album?!'" In 2008, Grande was cast in the supporting role of cheerleader Charlotte in the musical 13 on Broadway, for which she won a National Youth Theatre Association Award. When she joined the musical, Grande left North Broward Preparatory School, but continued to be enrolled; the school sent materials to her so she could study with tutors. She also sang various times at the New York City jazz club Birdland. Grande was cast in the Nickelodeon television show Victorious along with 13 co-star Elizabeth Gillies in 2009. In this sitcom, set in a performing arts high school, Grande played the "adorably dimwitted" Cat Valentine. She had to dye her hair red every other week for the role because the executive producer, Dan Schneider, did not want all the cast members to be brunettes, and the red hair was also a feature that the network felt would fit the personality of Cat. The show premiered in March 2010 to the second largest audience for a live-action series in Nickelodeon history with 5.7 million viewers. The role helped propel Grande to teen idol status, but she was more interested in a music career, stating that acting is "fun, but music has always been first and foremost with me." Her character was compared to "Brittany Murphy's performance as the hapless Tai in Clueless" and fifth artist overall after Justin Bieber and Drake. The song broke several streaming and recording industry records. Thank U, Next was released on February 8, 2019 and debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 while receiving acclaim from critics. It broke the records for the largest streaming week for a pop album and for a female album in the United States with 307 million on-demand streams. Grande became the first solo artist to occupy the top three spots on the Billboard Hot 100 with "7 Rings" at number one, her third single "Break Up with Your Girlfriend, I'm Bored" debuting at number two, and her lead single "Thank U, Next" rose to number three, and the overall second artist to do so since the Beatles did in 1964 when they occupied the top five spots. In the United Kingdom, Grande became the second female solo artist to simultaneously hold the number one and two spots and the first musical artist to replace herself at number one, twice consecutively. On February 20, 2019, Grande won a Brit Award for International Female Solo Artist. She also embarked on her third headlining tour, the Sweetener World Tour, to promote both Sweetener and Thank U, Next, which began on March 18, 2019. Grande was nominated for 9 awards at the 2019 Billboard Music Awards, including Top Artist. She would win two awards for Billboard Chart Achievement and Top Female Artist on May 1, 2019. Grande performed at the event via a pre-recorded performance from her Sweetener World Tour. In June 2019, Grande announced that she co-executive produced the soundtrack to Charlie's Angels. A collaboration with Miley Cyrus and Lana Del Rey, titled "Don't Call Me Angel", was released as the lead single from the soundtrack on September 13, 2019. In August 2019, she released a single titled "Boyfriend" with pop duo Social House. Grande co-wrote singer Normani's debut solo single "Motivation", which was released on August 16, 2019. Grande won three awards at the 2019 MTV Video Music Awards, including the Artist of the Year award. She was nominated for 12 awards in total, including Video of the Year for "Thank U, Next". Grande was featured on the remix of American singer and rapper Lizzo's song "Good as Hell", which was released on October 25, 2019..  Grande's music is generally described as pop and R&B with elements of EDM, hip hop, and trap music, the latter of which has seen increased incorporation into her music as her career has progressed, first appearing prominently on her Christmas & Chill extended play, and later being heavily featured on her fourth and fifth studio albums, Sweetener and Thank U, Next. Grande said she grew up mainly listening to urban pop and 90s music. Grande's debut album, Yours Truly was complimented for recreating the R&B "vibe and feel of the 90s" with the help of songwriter and producer Babyface. The follow-up, My Everything, was described as an evolution from her first album with a new sound exploring EDM and electropop genres. The Los Angeles Times review of her third album, Dangerous Woman, commented that it is "impressive how fully she inhabits the emotional environment of each song here, even when one directly contradicts another. ... She's ... deft – and that's okay." Mark Savage commented in BBC News: "Ariana Grande is one of pop's most intriguing and gifted singers. A magnetic performer with unrivalled vocal control". In The New York Times, Jon Pareles wrote that Grande's voice "can be silky, breathy or cutting, swooping through long melismas or jabbing out short R&B phrases; it's always supple and airborne, never forced." Composer and playwright Jason Robert Brown addressed Grande in a 2016 Time magazine article:. Grande cited Audrey Hepburn as her biggest style influence during her early years, but began to find imitating Hepburn's style "a little boring" as her career progressed. She also drew inspirations from actresses of the 1950s and 1960s, including Ann-Margret, Nancy Sinatra and Marilyn Monroe. Grande's modest look early in her career was described as "age appropriate", compared with other pop stars who grew up in the public eye. Jim Farber of New York Daily News wrote in 2014 that Grande received less attention "for how little she wears or how graphically she moves than for how she sings." That year, she began to wear short skirts and crop tops with knee-high boots in performances and on red carpets. After years of dyeing her hair red to play Cat Valentine, Grande wore extensions. Anne T. Donahue of MTV News argued that her iconic ponytail receives more attention than her bold fashion choices. Although Grande drew criticism for allegedly impolite interactions with reporters and fans in 2014, she dismissed these reports as "weird, inaccurate depictions". Rolling Stone wrote: "Some may cry 'diva', but it's also Grande just taking a stand to not allow others to control her image." In July 2015, Grande was seen on surveillance video in a doughnut shop licking doughnuts that were on display and saying "I hate Americans. I hate America. This is disgusting", referring to a tray of doughnuts. She apologized, writing that she is "extremely proud to be an American" and that her comments related to American obesity. She later released a video apology for "behaving poorly". The incident was parodied by The Muppets and featured in Miley Cyrus' Saturday Night Live cover of "My Way", about the regrets of the summer of 2015. Grande mocked the incident herself on Saturday Night Live in 2016, saying "A lot of kid stars end up doing drugs, or in jail, or pregnant, or get caught licking a doughnut they didn't pay for." Journalists and celebrities, such as Taylor Swift, Selena Gomez and Rita Ora, commented favorably on Grande's "empowering" 2015 essay posted on Twitter decrying the double standard and misogyny in the focus of the press on female musicians' relationships and sex lives, instead of "their value as an individual". Grande noted that she has "more to talk about" concerning her music and accomplishments, rather than her romantic relationships. In 2016, E! writer Kendall Fisher called her "a feminist hero" in an essay examining Grande's feminist statements. The same year, Grande was listed among Times 100 most influential people in the world. She was listed again in 2019. She received praise for her "grace and strength" in organizing, hosting and performing at the One Love Manchester benefit concert. Madeline Roth of MTV News wrote that the performance "bolstered courage among an audience that desperately needed it. ... Returning to the stage was a true act of bravery and resilience". New York Magazines Vulture section ranked the event as the No. 1 concert of 2017. Also in 2017, Mitchell Harrison of Billboard magazine called Grande a "gay icon" for her LGBT-friendly lyrics, performances and "support for the LGBTQ community". The same year, Celia Almeida wrote for Miami New Times:. All five of Grande's full-length albums have been certified platinum by the RIAA. She amassed over 40 billion streams on streaming platforms like YouTube, Spotify and Apple Music and is the most listened solo female on the latter two. Grande has been nominated for eleven Grammy Awards , and has won one BRIT Award, five MTV Video Music Awards, three MTV Europe Music Awards and three American Music Awards. She has received 22 Billboard Music Award nominations, winning two awards in 2019, including Top Female Artist. Grande won a 2014 Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Award for Favorite TV Actress for her performance on Sam & Cat. Subsequently, she won two more Kids' Choice Awards and one People's Choice Award. In 2014, she received the Breakthrough Artist of the Year award from the Music Business Association for excellence during her debut year. At the Bambi Awards, she received the award for Best Newcomer. She also received six iHeartRadio Music Awards, including the 2014 Young Influencer Award, as well as Pop Album of the Year for Sweetener and Artist of the Year awards in 2019. and the Billboard Women in Music Award: Rising Star for her accomplishments in 2014. She has won twelve Teen Choice Awards. In 2018, Billboard named her Woman of the Year. Ariana Grande has achieved numerous milestones and records on the Billboard Hot 100. Grande has ten top ten debuts, starting with her first single The Way, which debuted at number ten in 2013. From then, all her lead singles from each of her studio albums debuted in the top ten, making her the only artist in history to do so. In 2019, Grande became the first artist in history to have her first two number one singles, "Thank U, Next" and "7 Rings", debut at number one. With the release of Sweetener, Grande charted nine song from the album, alongside charting her collaborative single "Bed" with Nicki Minaj. With ten songs in total, Grande became the fourth female artist to chart at least ten songs on the Billboard Hot 100 behind Taylor Swift, Beyonce, and Cardi B. She would later break this record after the release of her fifth studio album, Thank U, Next, in which she charted all 12 songs from the album. Eleven of the twelve songs charted within the top 40, making Grande the female artist with the most songs charting in the top 40 simultaneously, surpassing Cardi B's record of nine songs. The three singles from Thank U, Next, "7 Rings", "Break Up with Your Girlfriend, I'm Bored", and "Thank U, Next" charted at numbers one, two, and three respectively on the week of February 23, 2019, making Grande the first solo artist in history to occupy the top three spots of the Billboard Hot 100, and the first artist to do so since the Beatles in 1964. This isn't the first time Grande had three songs in the top ten simultaneously, as she achieve this first back in 2014 when her singles "Bang Bang", "Break Free", and "Problem" all charted in the top ten at number ten, four, and seven respectively. Grande has also broken records with her albums as well, most notably with the release of Thank U, Next, Grande sets the record for the largest streaming week for a pop album with 307 million on-demand audio streams. She has the largest streaming week for both a pop album and for a female artist. Grande has a large following on social media. By April 2019, her YouTube channel had accrued more than 35 million subscribers and her music videos had been viewed a total of more than fourteen billion times, her Instagram account had accumulated more than 160 million followers, ranking her as the 2nd most followed person and most followed woman on Instagram, her Twitter account had more than 65 million followers, making it the 10th most followed Twitter account, and her Facebook page had more than 30 million likes..  At the age of ten, Grande co-founded the South Florida youth singing group Kids Who Care, which performed for charitable fund-raising events and raised over $500,000 for charities in 2007 alone. In 2009, as a member of the charitable organization Broadway in South Africa, Grande, along with her brother Frankie, performed and taught music and dance to children in Gugulethu, South Africa. She was featured with Bridgit Mendler and Kat Graham in Seventeen magazine in a 2013 public campaign to end online bullying called "Delete Digital Drama". After watching the film Blackfish that year, she urged fans to stop supporting SeaWorld. In September 2014, Grande participated at the charitable Stand Up to Cancer television program, performing her song "My Everything" in memory of her grandfather, who had died of cancer that July. Grande has adopted several rescue dogs as pets and promoted pet adoption at some of her concerts. In 2016, she launched with MAC Cosmetics a line of lip shades called "Ariana Grande's MAC Viva Glam", the profits of which benefit people affected by HIV and AIDS. In 2015, Grande and Miley Cyrus performed a cover of Crowded House's "Don't Dream It's Over" as part of Cyrus' "Backyard Sessions" to benefit her Happy Hippie Foundation, which helps homeless and LGBT youths. Later that year, Grande headlined the Dance On the Pier event, part of the LGBT Pride Week in New York City. In 2016, Grande joined Madonna to raise funds for orphaned children in Malawi. In 2016, Grande and Victoria Monét recorded "Better Days" in support of the Black Lives Matter movement. To aid the victims of the Manchester Arena bombing, Grande organized the One Love Manchester concert, donated a rerelease of "One Last Time" and her live performance of "Over the Rainbow" at the concert, and released a live album of the concert. The total amount raised was reportedly $23 million . Grossing over $150 million in global sales by 2017; her fragrances won the Fragrance Foundation Award multiple times, last in 2019 with Cloud..  Grande has stated that she is hypoglycemic. She has also said that she had posttraumatic stress disorder and anxiety following the 2017 Manchester Arena bombing. She commented on her social media that she almost pulled out of her performance in the 2018 broadcast A Very Wicked Halloween due to anxiety. Grande also stated she has been in therapy for over a decade, seeing a mental health professional shortly after her parents divorced. Grande was raised a Roman Catholic but abandoned Catholicism during the pontificate of Benedict XVI, citing opposition to the church's stance on homosexuality, noting that her half-brother Frankie is gay. She has followed Kabbalah teachings since the age of twelve, along with Frankie, believing "the basis lies in the idea that if you're kind to others, good things will happen to you." A few of her songs, such as "Break Your Heart Right Back", are supportive of LGBT rights. In November 2019, Grande endorsed Senator Bernie Sanders's second presidential bid. Grande met actor Graham Phillips in the cast of the musical 13 in 2008 and dated him until 2011. After recording "The Way" with Mac Miller in 2012, the two began dating in 2016. The relationship ended by May 2018. In May 2018, Grande began dating actor and comedian Pete Davidson, and in June 2018, Davidson announced that he and Grande were engaged. The two called off their engagement and ended their relationship in October 2018. In April 2019, following the release of the song "Monopoly" with Victoria Monét, Grande said that she does not label herself, stating "I haven't before and still don't feel the need to now".. * 13 . * Yours Truly . Headlining The Listening Sessions 