Michael Rubens Bloomberg is an American politician, businessman, and author. He is the co-founder, CEO, and majority owner of Bloomberg L.P.. He was mayor of New York City from 2002 to 2013. On November 24, 2019 he announced his candidacy for the 2020 United States presidential election.. Bloomberg grew up in Medford, Massachusetts and attended Johns Hopkins University and Harvard Business School. He began his career at the securities brokerage Salomon Brothers, before forming his own company in 1981 and spending the next twenty years as its chairman and CEO. He is the co-founder, CEO, and majority owner of Bloomberg L.P., a global financial services, software and mass media company that bears his name, and is known for its Bloomberg Terminal, a computer software system providing financial data widely used in the global financial services industry. As of November 2019, this made him the 9th richest person in the United States and the 14th richest person in the world; his net worth was estimated at $58 billion,. He has joined The Giving Pledge, whereby billionaires pledge to give away at least half of their wealth. To date, Bloomberg has given away $8.2 billion, including his $1.8 billion gift in 2018 to Johns Hopkins University for student aid—the largest private donation ever made to a higher education institution. Bloomberg served as the 108th mayor of New York City, holding office for three consecutive terms, beginning his first in 2002. A lifelong Democrat before seeking elective office, Bloomberg switched his party registration in 2001 to run for mayor as a Republican. He defeated opponent Mark J. Green in a close election held just weeks after the September 11 terrorist attacks. He won a second term in 2005, and left the Republican Party two years later. Bloomberg campaigned to change the city's term limits law, and was elected to his third term in 2009 as an independent on the Republican ballot line. His final term as mayor ended on December 31, 2013. Bloomberg also served as chair of the board of trustees at his alma mater, Johns Hopkins University, from 1996 to 2002. After a brief stint as a full-time philanthropist, Bloomberg re-assumed the position of CEO at Bloomberg L.P. by the end of 2014. He announced on November 24, 2019 that he was seeking the Democratic Party's nomination in the 2020 presidential election.. Bloomberg was born at St. Elizabeth's Hospital, in Brighton, a neighborhood of Boston, on February 14, 1942. His family is Jewish. He is a member of the Emanu-El Temple in Manhattan. Bloomberg's father, William Henry Bloomberg costume. He graduated in 1964 with a Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering. In 1966 he graduated from Harvard Business School with a Master of Business Administration.. In 1973, Bloomberg became a general partner at Salomon Brothers, a bulge bracket Wall Street investment bank, where he headed equity trading and, later, systems development. In 1981, Salomon Brothers was bought by Phibro Corporation, and Bloomberg was laid off from the investment bank. He was given no severance package, but owned $10 million worth of equity as a partner at the firm. Using this money, Bloomberg went on to set up a company named Innovative Market Systems. His business plan was based on the realization that Wall Street . In March 2012, Forbes reported Bloomberg's wealth at $22 billion, ranking him 20th in the world and 11th in the United States. By September 2013, Bloomberg's wealth was reported by Forbes as $31 billion and ranked him as the 10th richest person in the United States. In September 2015, his net worth was $43.3 billion, ranking him the 6th richest person in the United States. As of March 2019, he was ranked as the 9th-richest person in the world, with an estimated net worth of $57.1 billion..  Bloomberg assumed office as the 108th Mayor of New York City on January 1, 2002. He won re-election in 2005 and again in 2009. As mayor, Bloomberg initially struggled with a low approval rating from the public; however, he subsequently developed and maintained high approval ratings. His re-election meant the Republicans had won the previous four mayoral elections and former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani for the 2010 gubernatorial election. Bloomberg did not run for governor. In March 2010, Bloomberg's top political strategist Kevin Sheekey resigned from his mayoral advisory position and returned to Bloomberg LP, Bloomberg's company. It was speculated that the move would allow Sheekey to begin preliminary efforts for a Bloomberg presidential campaign in the 2012 election. An individual close to Bloomberg said, "the idea of continuing onward is not far from his mind". In October 2010, the Committee to Draft Michael Bloomberg – which had attempted to recruit Bloomberg to run for the presidency in 2008 – announced it was relaunching its effort to persuade Bloomberg to wage a presidential campaign in 2012. The committee members insisted that they would persist in the effort in spite of Bloomberg's repeated denials of interest in seeking the presidency. In a December 2010 appearance on Meet the Press, Bloomberg ruled out a run for the presidency in 2012. In July 2011, in the midst of Democrats' and Republicans' inability to agree on a budget plan and thus an increase in the federal debt limit, the Washington Post published a blog post about groups organizing third party approaches. It focused on Bloomberg as the best hope for a serious third-party presidential candidacy in 2012. In the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Sandy in November 2012, Bloomberg penned an op-ed officially endorsing Barack Obama for president, citing Obama's policies on climate change. On January 23, 2016, it was reported that Bloomberg was again considering a presidential run as an independent candidate in the 2016 election. This was the first time he had officially confirmed he was considering a run. Bloomberg supporters believed that Bloomberg could run as a centrist and capture many voters who were dissatisfied with the likely Democratic and Republican nominees. However, on March 7, Bloomberg announced he would not be running for president. In July 2016, Bloomberg delivered a speech at the 2016 Democratic National Convention in which he called Hillary Clinton "the right choice". In the speech, Bloomberg warned of the dangers a Trump presidency would pose. He said Trump "wants you to believe that we can solve our biggest problems by deporting Mexicans and shutting out Muslims. He wants you to believe that erecting trade barriers will bring back good jobs. He's wrong on both counts." Bloomberg also said Trump's economic plans "would make it harder for small businesses to compete" and would "erode our influence in the world". Trump responded to the speech with a series of angry tweets..  Bloomberg is a dedicated environmentalist and has advocated policy to fight climate change at least since he became the mayor of New York City. At the national level, Bloomberg has consistently pushed for transitioning the United States' energy mix from fossil fuels to clean energy. In July 2011, Bloomberg donated $50 million through Bloomberg Philanthropies to Sierra Club's Beyond Coal campaign, allowing the campaign to expand its efforts to shut down coal-fired power plants from 15 states to 45 states. On April 8, 2015, to build on the success of the Beyond Coal campaign, Bloomberg announced an additional Bloomberg Philanthropies investment of $30 million in the Beyond Coal initiative, matched with another $30 million by other donors, to help secure the retirement of half of America's fleet of coal plants by 2017. Bloomberg awarded a $6-million grant through Bloomberg Philanthropies to the Environmental Defense Fund in support of strict regulations on fracking in the 14 states with the heaviest natural gas production. In October 2013, Bloomberg and Bloomberg Philanthropies launched the Risky Business initiative with former Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson and hedge-fund billionaire Tom Steyer. The joint effort worked to convince the business community of the need for more sustainable energy and development policies by quantifying and publicized the economic risks the United States faces from the impacts of climate change. In January 2015, Bloomberg led Bloomberg Philanthropies in a $48-million partnership with the Heising-Simons family to launch the Clean Energy Initiative. The initiative supports state-based solutions aimed at ensuring America has a clean, reliable, and affordable energy system. Since 2010, Bloomberg has taken an increasingly global role on environmental issues. From 2010 to 2013, he served as the chairman of the C40 Cities Climate Leadership Group, a network of the world's biggest cities working together to reduce carbon emissions. During his tenure, Bloomberg worked with President Bill Clinton to merge C40 with the Clinton Climate Initiative, with the goal of amplifying their efforts in the global fight against climate change worldwide. He serves as the president of the board of C40 Cities. In January 2014, Bloomberg began a five-year commitment totaling $53 million through Bloomberg Philanthropies to the Vibrant Oceans Initiative. The initiative partners Bloomberg Philanthropies with Oceana, Rare, and Encourage Capital to help reform fisheries and increase sustainable populations worldwide. In 2018, Bloomberg joined Ray Dalio in announcing a commitment of $185 million towards protecting our oceans. On January 31, 2014, United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon appointed Bloomberg as his first Special Envoy for Cities and Climate Change to help the United Nations work with cities to prevent climate change. In September 2014, Bloomberg convened with Ban and global leaders at the UN Climate Summit to announce definite actions to fight climate change in 2015. Noting in March 2018 that "climate change is running faster than we are," Ban's successor António Guterres appointed Bloomberg as UN envoy for climate action. He resigned on November 11, 2019, in the run-up to his presidential campaign. In late 2014, Bloomberg, Ban Ki-moon, and global city networks ICLEI-Local Governments for Sustainability , a gun control advocacy group. On August 17, 2016, the World Health Organization appointed Bloomberg as its Global Ambassador for Noncommunicable Diseases. In this role, Bloomberg will mobilize private sector and political leaders to help the WHO reduce deaths from preventable diseases, traffic accidents, tobacco, obesity, and alcohol. WHO Director-General Margaret Chan cited Bloomberg's ongoing support for WHO anti-smoking, drowning prevention, and road safety programs in her announcement of his new role. In a ceremony on October 18, 2016, the Museum of Science, Boston announced a $50 million gift from Bloomberg. The donation marks Bloomberg's fourth gift to the museum, which he credits with sparking his intellectual curiosity as a patron and student during his youth in Medford, Massachusetts. The endowment will support and rename the museum's education division as the William and Charlotte Bloomberg Science Education Center, in honor of Bloomberg's parents. It is the largest donation in the museum's 186-year history. On December 5, 2016, Bloomberg Philanthropies became the largest funder of tobacco-control efforts in the developing world. The group announced a $360 million commitment on top of their pre-existing commitment, bringing his total contribution close to $1 billion. This new donation will help expand its previous work, such as getting countries to monitor tobacco use, introduce strong tobacco-control laws, and create mass media campaigns to educate the public about the dangers of tobacco use. The program includes 110 countries, among them China, India, Indonesia and Bangladesh. On November 18, 2018, Johns Hopkins announced a further gift of $1.8 billion from Bloomberg, marking the largest private donation in modern history to an institution of higher education and bringing Bloomberg's total contribution to the school in excess of $3.3 billion. Bloomberg's gift allows the school to practice need-blind admission and meet the full financial need of admitted students.. In 1975, Bloomberg married Susan Elizabeth Barbara Brown, a British national from Yorkshire, United Kingdom. They had two daughters: Emma , who were featured on Born Rich, a documentary film about the children of the extremely wealthy. Bloomberg divorced Brown in 1993, but he has said she remains his "best friend." Since 2000, Bloomberg has lived with former New York state banking superintendent Diana Taylor. Michael Bloomberg and his daughters own houses in Bermuda and stay there frequently. His daughter Emma is married to Christopher Frissora, son of multimillionaire businessman Mark Frissora. Although he attended Hebrew school, had a Bar Mitzvah, and his family kept a kosher kitchen, Bloomberg today is relatively secular, attending synagogue mainly during the High Holidays. Neither of his daughters were raised Jewish. Licensed as a private pilot, Bloomberg pilots an AW109 helicopter, and as of 2012 was near the top of the waiting list for an AW609 tiltrotor aircraft. In his youth he was a licensed amateur radio operator, was proficient in Morse code, and built ham radios. His younger sister, Marjorie Tiven, has been Commissioner of the New York City Commission for the United Nations, Consular Corps and Protocol, since February 2002. In 2013, he owned 13 properties in various countries around the world, including a mansion built in the Georgian style. His newest acquisition is a historical property located in London that once belonged to writer George Eliot.. At the 2007 commencement exercises for Tufts University, Bloomberg delivered the commencement address. He was awarded an honorary degree in Public Service from the university. Likewise, Bloomberg delivered the 2007 commencement address at Bard College, where he was also awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters. In February 2003, he received the "Award for Distinguished Leadership in Global Capital Markets" from the Yale School of Management. Bloomberg was named the 39th most influential person in the world in the 2007 and 2008 Time 100. In October 2010, Vanity Fair ranked him #7 in its "Vanity Fair 100: The New Establish 2010." In May 2008, Bloomberg was awarded an honorary doctorate of laws from the University of Pennsylvania, where he delivered the commencement speech to the class of 2008. Bloomberg delivered the commencement address to the class of 2008 at Barnard College, located in New York City, after receiving the Barnard Medal of Distinction, the college's highest honor. In 2009, he received the honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from Fordham University. In May 2011, Bloomberg was the speaker for Princeton University's 2011 baccalaureate service. In June 2014, Bloomberg was the speaker for Williams College's 2014 commencement. He received an honorary degree as doctor of laws. Bloomberg was given a tribute award at the 2007 Gotham Awards, a New York City-based celebrator of independent film. On November 19, 2008, Bloomberg received The Hundred Year Association of New York's Gold Medal "in recognition of outstanding contributions to the City of New York". Additionally, he was awarded an honorary doctorate at Fordham University's 2009 commencement ceremonies. In 2009, Bloomberg received a Healthy Communities Leadership Award from Leadership for Healthy Communities – a Robert Wood Johnson Foundation national program – for his policies and programs that increase access to healthful foods and physical activity options in the city. For instance, to increase access to grocery stores in underserved areas, the Bloomberg administration developed a program called FRESH that offers zoning and financial incentives to developers, grocery store operators and land owners. His administration also created a Healthy Bodega initiative, which provides healthful food samples and promotional support to grocers in lower-income areas to encourage them to carry one-percent milk and fruits and vegetables. Under Bloomberg's leadership, the city passed a Green Carts bill, which supports mobile produce vendors in lower-income areas; expanded farmers' markets using the city's Health Bucks program which provides coupons to eligible individuals to buy produce at farmers' markets in lower-income areas; and committed $111 million in capital funding for playground improvements. New York also was one of the first cities in the nation to help patrons make more informed decisions about their food choices by requiring fast-food and chain restaurants to label their menus with calorie information. In 2010, Bloomberg received the U.S. Senator John Heinz Award for Greatest Public Service by an Elected or Appointed Official, an award given out annually by Jefferson Awards. In 2013, Bloomberg was chosen as the inaugural laureate of the Genesis Prize, a $1-million award to be presented annually for Jewish values. He will invest his US&nbsp;$1M award in a global competition, the Genesis Generation Challenge, to identify young adults' big ideas to better the world. In 2014, Bloomberg was bestowed the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from Harvard University in recognition of his public service and leadership in the world of business. On October 6, 2014, Queen Elizabeth II awarded Bloomberg as Honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire for his "prodigious entrepreneurial and philanthropic endeavors, and the many ways in which they have benefited the United Kingdom and the U.K.-U.S. special relationship." As Bloomberg is not a citizen of the United Kingdom, he cannot use the title "Sir", but may, at his own discretion, use the post-nominal letters "". In 2015, the Bloomberg Terminal was featured prominently in the "Tools of the Trade" financial technology exhibit in Silicon Valley's Computer History Museum, as well as the Smithsonian National Museum of American History. In March 2017, Bloomberg was ranked sixth on the UK-based company Richtopia's list of 200 Most Influential Philanthropists and Social Entrepreneurs. In May 2019, Bloomberg was awarded an honorary doctorate of laws degree from Washington University in St. Louis where he delivered the commencement speech to the class of 2019 and announced he would fund a conference at Washington University in early 2020 that will focus on mitigating the effects of climate change.