Edward R. Gallagher is a United States Navy SEAL Special Warfare Operator. From September 2018 to July 2019, he faced court martial charges over accusations of stabbing to death a captured, injured, sedated teenage ISIS fighter, then photographing himself holding the teenager's head by the hair and sending the photo to friends. He was also accused of randomly shooting Iraqi civilians. He was acquitted on almost all charges on July 2, 2019, but was found guilty of posing for a photograph with a corpse, considered the least egregious of the crimes. His trial included an unexpected confession from another medic who had been granted immunity, claiming he was the one who actually killed the victim. As a result of the trial, Gallagher was sentenced to demotion from Chief Petty Officer to Petty Officer First Class and four months in prison, resulting in him being released for time served awaiting trial; this demotion was later directly countermanded by President Donald Trump.. Gallagher enlisted in the United States Navy in 1999. He had eight overseas deployments, including service in both the Iraq War and the War in Afghanistan. He was trained as a medic, a sniper, and as an explosives expert. He was attached to a U.S. Marine Corps unit until he enrolled in to become a Navy SEAL in 2005. During his service, he was decorated for valor several times, including two Bronze Stars. He received positive evaluations from his superiors within the SEALs and served as an instructor in the SEALs BUD/S program for recruits. Gallagher goes by the nickname "Blade" with his fellow frogmen. Gallagher also attracted controversies and investigations, although few formal reprimands. He was the subject in an investigation of the shooting of a young girl in Afghanistan in 2010, but was cleared of wrongdoing in it. He also allegedly tried to run over a Navy police officer with his car in 2014 after being detained at a traffic stop. By 2015, Gallagher had acquired a reputation as someone who was more interested in fighting terrorists and less interested in compliance with rules. In his eighth deployment in 2017, Gallagher's aggressive side was seemingly amplified, especially during the Battle for Mosul, wherein the US force mission was intended to be more advisory than direct combat. Gallagher was the subject of a number of reports from his fellow SEAL team members of actions not in keeping with the rules of war, but initially these reports were dismissed by the SEAL command structure. Only after the reports were escalated outside the SEALs were they acted upon and directed to the Naval Criminal Investigative Service . On September 11, 2018, Gallagher was arrested at Camp Pendleton and charged with premeditated murder, attempted murder, obstruction of justice, and other offenses. On October 18, Lieutenant Jacob Portier of Gallagher's platoon was also charged with failing to properly escalate to his superiors in the chain of command as well as destroying evidence. Gallagher pleaded not guilty to all the charges against him.. Gallagher was accused of multiple offenses during his final deployment to Iraq and during the Battle for Mosul. The most prominent accusation and the best-attested to was the murder of a prisoner of war, a war crime. A captured young fighter of the Islamic State was being treated by a medic. According to two SEAL witnesses, Gallagher said over the radio "he's mine" and walked up to the medic and prisoner, and without saying a word killed the prisoner by stabbing him repeatedly with his hunting knife. Gallagher and his commanding officer, Lieutenant Jake Portier, then posed for photographs of them standing over the body with some other nearby SEALs. Gallagher then text messaged a friend in California a picture himself holding the dead captive's head by the hair with the explanation "Good story behind this, got him with my hunting knife.” Another accusation was that Gallagher's sniper work during his 2017 deployment became indiscriminate, reckless, and bloodthirsty. He allegedly fired his rifle far more frequently than other snipers; according to testimony, the other snipers in the platoon did not consider him a good sniper, and he took "random shots" into buildings. Other snipers said they witnessed Gallagher taking at least two militarily pointless shots, shooting and killing an unarmed old man in a white robe as well as a young girl walking with other girls. Gallagher allegedly boasted about the large number of people he had killed, claiming he averaged three kills a day over 80 days, including four women. Gallagher also was reportedly known for indiscriminately spraying neighborhoods with rockets and machine gun fire with no known enemy force in the region. A charge of obstruction of justice was brought against Gallagher for alleged witness intimidation. According to the claim, Gallagher allegedly threatened to kill fellow SEALs if they reported his actions. The Navy cited his text messages as attempting to undermine the investigation, with messages sent to "pass the word on those traitors", meaning cooperating witnesses, and to get them blacklisted within the special warfare community. This resulted in him being confined in the brig for a time with heavy restrictions on his ability to communicate, although this confinement was later lessened. Gallagher was also charged with nearly a dozen lesser offenses. Some of these charges, such as flying a drone over a corpse, were dismissed during preliminary hearings. According to the original Navy prosecutor Chris Czaplak, "Chief Gallagher decided to act like the monster the terrorists accuse us of being. He handed ISIS propaganda manna from heaven. His actions are everything ISIS says we are.". The case was considered to be a "difficult" one due to the Navy's slow response to the reports of misconduct. No formal investigation began for nearly a year after the reports were made and by then much of the physical evidence, such as the bodies of those alleged to be killed by Gallagher, were not recoverable. The prosecution's case relied largely on eyewitness testimony, which the defense sought to discredit as merely that of spiteful malcontents who disliked Gallagher's gruff leadership style. The defense also said that Gallagher's text messages merely reflected dark comedy in a stressful situation, and that his more outrageous boasts were clearly impossible have repeatedly scooped private documents related to the case. As a result of the spying controversy, the judge ordered Gallagher freed from prison while awaiting trial as a remedy to interference from the prosecution. The judge later ordered that the chief prosecutor, Commander Christopher Czaplak, be dismissed from the case and replaced as a result of the incident. Representative Duncan Hunter of California was a fierce advocate for Gallagher throughout the process, saying that he himself had posed for pictures with a dead enemy combatant and that American artillery fire had probably killed hundreds of Iraqi civilians. On May 8 he said he had seen secret body camera footage that exonerated Gallagher of one of the charges against him, but this video has not been publicly revealed. Hunter advocated in favor of a presidential pardon for Gallagher if he is convicted. According to anonymous administration sources in May 2019, the Justice Department was indeed investigating Gallagher's case in preparation for a possible pardon from President Trump. This potential pardon was hotly criticized by a number of commentators and news outlets. Gallagher's trial was originally set for June 10, 2019, but was postponed to June 17, 2019, due to removal of the lead prosecutor. On June 20, 2019, during Gallagher's trial, one of the platoon medics from Gallagher's team testifying as a prosecution witness said that although Gallagher did stab the ISIS fighter, he did not actually kill him. The medic, Special Operator First Class Corey Scott who testified under an immunity agreement, testified that he himself had killed the wounded prisoner by covering his breathing tube and asphyxiating him. Scott called it a "mercy killing" and argued that the victim would have been tortured by Iraqi personnel due to his connection to the Islamic State. Prosecutors were taken by surprise, since the medic had never given this version of events to them or Navy investigators. This account was also contrary to the statements of at least seven other SEALs as well as Scott's previous statements. Because of the immunity agreement Scott cannot be prosecuted even for admitting publicly that he killed the man, though he could be prosecuted for perjury if the account is proven false..  Gallagher was acquitted on six of seven charges on July 2, 2019; the jury found him guilty of the seventh charge, of "wrongfully pos for an unofficial picture with a human casualty". That charge carried a maximum prison sentence of four months. Since Gallagher had already served more time in jail than the sentence, he was released. After the trial, it was considered possible that Special Warfare Operator 1st Class Corey Scott, the medic whose surprise testimony undermined the prosecution's case, would be prosecuted for perjury, although such cases are traditionally difficult to make; nothing came of it, however. The same jury that tried Gallagher sentenced him on July 3, 2019, for posing with the corpse. The jury gave Gallagher, who had already served the maximum prison time for this charge, a demotion from Chief Petty Officer , which were not handed down. President Trump congratulated Gallagher on his acquittal over Twitter. Four weeks later, President Trump announced over Twitter he had directed the Secretary of the Navy to revoke Navy Achievement Medals given to members of the prosecution team that oversaw Gallagher's case. After the closure of the case, Gallagher and his initial lawyer entered a dispute in August 2019. According to his first lawyer, Colby Vokey, Gallagher did not pay Vokey's specified rate, and filed an arbitration claim against Gallagher. According to Gallagher, Vokey performed no useful services and was bilking him. Gallagher cut ties with Vokey and the United American Patriots in March 2019 and directed supporters to use a different non-profit to raise funds for his defense, the Navy SEALs Fund. Gallagher and his lawyers made an appeal for clemency at the conclusion of the court martial; such requests are frequently made, although rarely successful. Due to the charged nature of the case, this request went high up the chain of command. The request was initially rejected by Rear Admiral Bette Bolivar. After President Trump brought the issue up at a meeting with Chief of Naval Operations John M. Richardson, Admiral Richardson took up the request personally. After Richardson's retirement in August 2019, his replacement Admiral Michael M. Gilday took ownership of the request. Gilday eventually partially granted the request in October 2019: he reduced the punishment from a full demotion to a one-rank demotion to special operator first class, as the jury had recommended, rather than the default demotion to E-1 seaman. This would result in an improvement to Gallagher's pension and retirement benefits. According to a former Navy prosecutor, the top admiral in the Navy directly handling such a matter is extremely rare, but not unmerited due to the high profile of the case. The clemency decision ended up moot: In November 2019, Trump declared that Gallagher's demotion would be reversed. A week earlier Navy Secretary Richard V. Spencer had sent Trump a note asking him not to intervene again. The president's move also included several other military members accused of misconduct: in addition to Gallagher, Lieutenant Clint Lorance was ordered freed; and the prosecution of Matthew Golsteyn was ordered to be ended. Following his acquittal Gallagher spoke publicly about the case, appearing on Fox News without authorization, and using social media to describe his superiors, including Rear Admiral Collin Green, the newly installed commander of the SEALS, as "a bunch of morons". Green ordered Gallagher's case to be investigated by the Trident Review Board, to determine whether Gallagher should be stripped of his Trident Pin, a symbol of membership in the SEALs. He noted that SEALS with criminal convictions almost always lose their Trident Pin. On November 21 Trump tweeted, "The Navy will NOT be taking away Warfighter and Navy Seal Eddie Gallagher's Trident Pin. This case was handled very badly from the beginning. Get back to business!" Spencer responded that terminating this probe could only be done via an official written order from the White House. Associates said Spencer would resign if such an order is issued, believing it undercuts his authority and that of Rear Adm. Collin Green, commander of the SEALs. On November 24, 2019, Defense Secretary Mark Esper said he had learned that Spencer made a private offer to the White House that if the White House did not interfere, he would guarantee that Gallagher would keep his Trident pin. This offer contradicted Spencer's public position and was kept secret from Esper. Esper immediately fired Spencer for going outside the chain of command. The next day Esper said that Trump had ordered him to allow Gallagher to keep his Trident Pin, so that Gallagher remains a SEAL until his retirement at the end of November. Gallagher's case was scheduled for a hearing by the Navy SEAL review board on December 2, 2019. Gallagher was one of three soldiers accused or convicted of war crimes on whose behalf Trump had intervened to pardon or promote. Trump told a rally audience days after his intervention, "I stuck up for three great warriors against the deep state."