Tyson Luke Fury earned him Comeback of the Year from The Ring and numerous other awards.. Tyson Luke Fury was born on 12 August 1988 in the Wythenshawe area of Manchester, where he was raised. He was born three months premature and weighed 1&nbsp;pound. His father, John, named him Tyson after the then-undefeated undisputed heavyweight world champion Mike Tyson. John said, "The doctors told me there was not much chance of him living. I had lost two daughters in the same way who had been born prematurely." He named him Tyson as he was a fighter and survived the premature birth. Fury is of Irish Traveller descent. His paternal grandfather was from Tuam, which is also the birthplace of his father. The Furys are ultimately of Gaelic origin, deriving their present surname from Ó Fiodhabhra. Fury's maternal grandmother is from County Tipperary and his mother was born in Belfast. Despite strongly identifying with his Irish heritage, Fury has had problems in gaining dual citizenship because his father's birth in County Galway was not recorded civilly in the 1960s, as Irish Travellers at the time only recorded births through baptism with the church rather than officially with the state. Fury left school when he was 11, and joined his father and three brothers tarmacking roads. His mother Amber had 14 pregnancies in total, but only four of the children survived. A daughter, Ramona, was born in December 1997 but died within days. This experience has stayed with Fury, who was just nine years old at the time. Fury began boxing at the age of 10. His father acted as his trainer until 2011, when his father was jailed for gouging out the eye of another Traveller due to a long-standing feud; Fury himself was raised to keep the fighting within the ring and has not had trouble with the law. The Fury family has a long history in boxing. Fury's father competed in the 1980s as "Gypsy" John Fury, initially as a bare-knuckle and unlicensed boxer, and then as a professional boxer. John had a professional record of 8-4-1, with one of his losses being to Henry Akinwande. Fury is also a cousin of several professional boxers, including heavyweights Hughie Fury and Nathan Gorman, retired WBO middleweight world champion Andy Lee and light heavyweight contender Hosea Burton. His half-brother Tommy made his professional debut on 22 December 2018 under the tutelage of two-weight world champion Ricky Hatton. Fury is also a distant relative of the bare-knuckle boxers Uriah Burton and Bartley Gorman, both considered "King of the Gypsies", hence Fury's own nickname of "Gypsy King". He has also styled himself as "The Furious One" and "2 Fast" Fury.. As an amateur, Fury represented both Ireland and England. Fury represented Ireland three times at international level. He was based at of the Holy Family Boxing Club in Belfast, Northern Ireland, and later switched to the Smithboro Club in County Monaghan in the Republic of Ireland. In a double international match against an experienced Polish team in 2007, the Irish team lost 12–6 overall; Fury, however, was victorious in both his fights in Rzeszów and Białystok. In another Irish match against the US, Fury won his bout by knockout. He won bronze at the AIBA Youth World Boxing Championships in 2006. In England, whilst representing Jimmy Egan's Boxing Academy in Wythenshawe, Manchester, he participated in the senior national championships in 2006 but was beaten by David Price 22–8. In May 2007, he won the EU Junior Championship, defeating Istvan Bernath in the final. In July 2007 he won silver at the European Junior Championship, losing to Maxim Babanin in the final. As a junior, Fury was ranked number three in the world behind the Russians Maxim Babanin and Andrey Volkov, but did not get the chance to represent Great Britain at the 2008 Olympics because each country is restricted to one boxer per weight division and David Price was selected. Price came up through the amateur Olympic programme. Fury also unsuccessfully tried to qualify for Ireland. He was also forced to withdraw from the Irish national championships after officials from the Holy Trinity Boxing Club in West Belfast, the club of the then Irish amateur heavyweight champion, submitted a protest regarding his eligibility as he was not born in Ireland. Fury won the ABA super-heavyweight title in 2008 before turning professional later that year. Feeling disillusioned with amateur boxing, he decided not to wait for the 2012 Olympics. He finished with an amateur record of 31-4 ..  Fury made his professional debut at the age of 20 on 6 December 2008 in Nottingham, on the undercard of Carl Froch vs. Jean Pascal against Hungarian fighter Bela Gyongyosi, who Fury defeated via TKO in the first round with a combination to head and body. He then had six more fights in the space of seven months, defeating Marcel Zeller, Daniil Peratyakto, Lee Swaby, Matthew Ellis, Scott Belshaw and Aleksandrs Selezens all via knockout within 4 rounds. On 11 September 2009, Fury fought John McDermott for the English heavyweight title, and won via a points decision. Fury came in as a 1-6 favourite but produced a poor display, and the 98-92 decision by the referee Terry O'Connor was criticised. The decision led the British Boxing Board of Control to mandate three judges for all English titles, and the board ordered a rematch. Fury scored two more victories against Tomas Mrazek and Hans-Joerg Blasko before facing McDermott in a rematch on 25 June 2010. Fury settled the controversy of the first fight, as he knocked down McDermott three times, first in the 8th round then twice in the 9th round to win by TKO. Up to this point, McDermott had not been knocked down in his 32-fight career. Fury won the English heavyweight title for a second time in the process. Another three wins followed: a points decisions over American fighters Rich Power and Zack Page in two 8-round matches, and a knockout of the Brazilian Marcelo Luis Nacimento in the 5th round. On 23 July 2011, Fury faced undefeated heavyweight Dereck Chisora for the British and Commonwealth heavyweight titles at Wembley Arena in London. Although Chisora was aged 27 and Fury just 22 years old, both men went into the fight with a record of 14-0. Despite Fury's superior size and reach, Chisora was the favourite. After 12 hard-fought rounds Fury won via unanimous decision 117–112, 117–112, and 118–111, with the fight shown live on free-to-air Channel 5. Promoter Mick Hennessy said the fight peaked at around 3 million viewers. On 17 September 2011, Fury fought 32-year-old fringe contender Nicolai Firtha . Of these total punches, Fury landed 127 power punches to Wallin's 84. In his in-ring interview, Fury praised the performance of Wallin, who was a more than 10–1 underdog, and expressed condolences as Wallin's father had recently died. Fury then called out Wilder for a rematch in February 2020.. ===WWE for his participation.. After becoming world champion, the British media began to scrutinise what Fury had said in the past. He received criticism for having said that he would "hang" his sister if she was promiscuous, as well as comments made in an interview before the Klitschko fight in which he denounced abortion, paedophilia, and homosexuality, saying that the legalisation of these behaviours would bring forth a Biblical reckoning. He was nominated for the 2015 BBC Sports Personality of the Year Award but around 140,000 people signed a petition claiming that his equation of homosexuality with paedophilia should disqualify him. He ultimately came fourth in the SPOTY award and said at the ceremony, "I've said a lot of stuff in the past and none of it is with intentions to hurt anybody. I apologise to anyone that's been hurt by it." He also was criticised for comments on bestiality, transgender people, and "Jewish people who own all the banks, all the papers, all the TV stations" in a May 2016 interview. The interview was later deleted and Fury apologised: "I said some things which may have hurt some people, which as a Christian man is not something I would ever want to do. Though it is not an excuse, sometimes the heightened media scrutiny has caused me to act out in public and then my words can get taken out of context. I mean no harm or disrespect to anyone and I know more is expected of me as an ambassador of British boxing and I promise in future to hold myself up to the highest possible standard." Fury was formerly known for his attention-grabbing antics, such as arriving at a press conference in a Lamborghini and wearing a Batman costume. After his hiatus, he has said that he does not want to "play a character anymore". He stated in November 2017, "I feel I have a story to tell, a massive one. The stuff I've been through, depression, mental health problems. It can help and inspire others. From 18 stone to 27. From a clean living man to drugs and alcohol and back to the heavyweight world champion again. I hope the legacy and story I leave behind will help others in the future of what to do and not to do." Since his return to the ring and his strong performance against Wilder, Fury has been dubbed "The People's Champion" due to his open and honest discussion about his mental health struggles. In September 2019, Penguin Random House imprint Century secured the publishing rights to Fury's autobiography, titled Behind the Mask: My Autobiography. It was released on 14 November 2019 and was preceded by a four-part ITV documentary named Meet the Furys, which was a series about Fury's life with his wife Paris and children while preparing to headline for the first time in Vegas. Behind the Mask reached the number-one bestseller position on Amazon with 24 hours of its release.. Fury met his wife Paris when she was 15 and he was 17. Like Fury, Paris is a practising Catholic and was raised in a Gypsy family. They began dating the year after they met, and married in 2008 at St. Peter in Chains Catholic Church in Doncaster, South Yorkshire. The couple have since had five children together. Fury and his family reside in Morecambe, Lancashire. In September 2015, he expressed an interest in running as an independent candidate to be the for Morecambe and Lunesdale, opining that the government was overly focused on providing services for immigrants and not enough on homeless people and those with drug and alcohol problems. He also suggested that Britain should leave the European Union. In April 2016, Fury spoke about the racial abuse he receives as a Gypsy world champion, because "no one wants to see a Gypsy do well". Also in April 2016, he discussed relocating to the United States because he does not feel accepted in Britain, stating, "I am not accepted in this country. I am a Gypsy and that's it. I will always be a Gypsy, I'll never change. I will always be fat and white and that's it. I am the champion yet I am thought of as a bum. I am going to America where champions are better thought of." He is currently an Ambassador for the former British world champion Frank Bruno's mental health charity, The Frank Bruno Foundation.