'War' is a 2019 Indian Hindi-language action thriller film directed by Siddharth Anand and produced by Aditya Chopra under his banner Yash Raj Films. It stars Hrithik Roshan and Tiger Shroff, and tells the story of an Indian soldier assigned to eliminate his former mentor who has gone rogue. Principal photography began in the second week of September 2018 and concluded in March 2019. Initially titled Fighters, the film's title was changed after the release of the official teaser in July 2019. The music was composed by Vishal–Shekhar, with lyrics written by Kumaar, and released under the banner YRF Music. War was theatrically released in India in 4DX on 2 October 2019, the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. The film received mostly positive reviews from critics, with praise for the performances of Roshan and Shroff and the action sequence, but criticism for its predictable storyline. War set the record for the highest-opening day collection for a Bollywood film in India. With a worldwide gross of over 450 crore, it emerged as a commercial success, and the .. In New Delhi, a mysterious sniper is contacted by an aged secret agent, V.K. Naidu, to kill a target from a distance. However, the sniper instead shoots Naidu, and escapes, and is thus shown to be rogue former Research and Analysis Wing agent Kabir, considered one of the agency's best. Shortly after Kabir's boss and RAW joint secretary, Colonel Sunil Luthra, relays his betrayal to Defence Minister Sherna Patel, she calls for the agency to summon Khalid Rahmani, a RAW agent who was previously mentored by Kabir, and is in complete awe of the former agent. A flashback shows Khalid's introduction to Kabir, who questions Sunil about Khalid's loyalty to the nation, arguing that Khalid's late father, Abdul Rahmani, proved himself a traitor both to the nation and Kabir himself when he shot him. However, in full awe of Kabir, who he regards as a major inspiration, Khalid insists that he will serve his country, no matter what, and regain his family's honour. During the conversation between the two that follows a highly crucial and intense mission which turns out to be a success, Kabir takes Khalid to account after noticing his one-sided aim, to which Khalid responds by citing that his father's treason resulted in him being severely smashed in the right eye by a school bully, which impaired his vision. Kabir, however, reveals that he was indeed testing him, and accepts Khalid after seeing his love and chemistry with his mother Nafeesa, inducting him into his special force, which comprises a few fellow agents, namely one Saurabh and hacker Aditi. Kabir plans his next mission, which is targeted at criminal mastermind and terrorist-cum-businessman Rizwan Illiyasi. The mission nearly succeeds with the team overpowering Illiyasi, but when he proclaims to Kabir that there is a mole in his team who is fully loyal to his terrorist cause, the agents giving Kabir's team company are suddenly shot down by Saurabh, who, it turns out, is the defector, as he was blinded by greed and had accepted Illiyasi's offer of nearly $100 million to betray his country. An enraged Khalid leaves the spot and chases Saurabh, whose act of shooting the guards supporting the agents results in a deadly shootout. Kabir tries his best to stop Khalid, but in vain. On the other hand, Kabir, who nearly succeeds in shooting Illiyasi, is suddenly shot unconscious by Illiyasi's henchmen. Kabir wakes up to find himself seriously handicapped while he finds Khalid on bed, having been supposedly recovered unconscious by the army on the shore. Eventually, he turns rogue, and the story shifts back to present day, wherein Khalid struggles to find Kabir but fails, and is nearly taken off the case when another agent is murdered, though he convinces Sunil and Sherna to give him one last chance, and it is at this point, when he finds Kabir briefly and learns about the latter's next target, Dr. Utpal Biswas, that he realizes that Kabir is actually targeting associates of Illiyasi, Biswas and Naidu being among those responsible, and is on an undercover mission to recover a secret document that Illiyasi badly needs. However, even after this, when he is unable to prevent Biswas from being killed, a furious Khalid gives chase to Kabir, who escapes again. Later, it is shown that Kabir has been on a holiday, and frequently gives company to a young girl named Roohi. He reminisces about Roohi's single mother Naina, who he had started a relationship with in order to make her a perfect civilian asset. Upon learning of his true identity, Naina was mistrustful and hesitant to help him, but agreed for her five-year-old daughter's sake. Kabir assured Naina of her safety, to which the latter replied that she has lost all her faith on him. However, during Naina's mission to spy on Illiyasi's associate Firoze Contractor, an initially confident Kabir, who actually had been in touch with Aditi all along, suddenly finds out that among Illiyasi's many contacts was a plastic surgeon, Dr. Mallika Singhal, who had previously helped Illiyasi with a plastic surgery. Realizing that Contractor is actually a disguised Illiyasi, he rushes to Naina's aid, but is too late to save her life. Presently, Khalid traces Kabir through Roohi to a Christmas party in winding, and they have a brief discussion at Kabir's hideout, when they are suddenly attacked. Both of them fight off the attackers and make it to Aditi's wedding in Kerala, whereupon they receive the drive with the secret code that Illiyasi needs. However, while Kabir hands over the drive to Khalid and they celebrate on a boat, he is later poisoned while sharing a drink with Khalid, who is revealed to actually be Saurabh. A flashback to the chase between Khalid and Saurabh shows Khalid being shot dead by Illiyasi, following which Saurabh undergoes plastic surgery to disguise himself as Khalid. As part of the scheme, Illiyasi's henchmen shoot Saurabh so he can be recovered by the Indian Army. In the present, Saurabh throws the poisoned and seemingly helpless Kabir into a river. Saurabh returns to his headquarters - a fully-armed weapons ship which houses Illiyasi - and launches an anti-satellite missile to destroy the Indian military satellite monitoring the Indo-Pakistani border that supports communications for Indian military forces in remote areas. Kabir parachutes aboard and single-handedly attacks the ship and confronts Saurabh, revealing that he had known that the latter was not Khalid, having seen him aim and shoot in a way which Khalid couldn't do due to a vision impairment, and also for his choice to drink wine, considered forbidden by Khalid. Hence, he put Aditi to spy on him, and had acquired an antidote for the poison in his drink. Deciding Illiyasi has become expendable, Saurabh shoots him dead in the ensuing confrontation and flees. Kabir gives chase to Saurabh and overpowers him after an intense fight in a church. The church's dome collapses on Saurabh, killing him. The intelligence agency honours Khalid posthumously for his sacrifice, with Nafeesa receiving an award from the President. Kabir, still believed by the public to be a deserter, spends some family time with Roohi, and continues with his next undercover mission after a brief conversation with his boss.. * Hrithik Roshan as Major Kabir Tiger Shroff as Captain Khalid Rahmani / Saurabh Vaani Kapoor as Naina Sahni Ashutosh Rana as Colonel Sunil Luthra Anupriya Goenka as Aditi Dipannita Sharma as Dr. Mallika Singhal Soni Razdan as Nafeesa Rahmani, Khalid's mother Swaroopa Ghosh as Sherna Patel Dishita Sehgal as Roohi, Naina's daughter Sanjeev Vasta as Rizwan Iiyasi Yash Raaj Singh as Saurabh Arif Zakaria as Dr. Utpal Bisbas Mohit Chauhan as V.K Naidu Salmin Sheriff as Oslav Imran Ahemed as Saini Shahbaz Akhtar as Vishal Shrikant Dwivedi as Derrick Jesse Lever as Muthu Midhat Ullah Khan as Saeed Addam Ravi Awana as Basheer Hassib.  On Yash Chopra’s birth anniversary, Yash Raj Films announced a new action film starring Hrithik Roshan and Tiger Shroff. Vaani Kapoor was finalised to play the female lead. Two international action choreographers from Hollywood and Korea were employed to design action sequences. The last scene of the film was shot actually on the Arctic Circle, becoming the first ever Indian film to do so. Siddharth the director stated, “We want to push the benchmark of action movies that are made in our country. So, we are bringing two of the biggest action choreographers together to design some of the most outlandish and visually-spectacular sequences. On one hand, we have Andy R Armstrong from Hollywood and on the other, we have Mr Oh, who is an outstanding martial arts action choreographer from South Korea.” Principal photography began in the second week of September 2018. The film also has a dance off between the two stars. The film schedule was wrapped up in the beginning of March 2019.. The film was released on 2 October 2019, coinciding with the Gandhi Jayanti. The official 4K teaser of the film was released on 15 July 2019 by Yash Raj Films. It has garnered 54 million views since it was released. The official trailer of the film was released on 27 August 2019 by Yash Raj Films.. The music of the film is composed by Vishal–Shekhar, with lyrics written by Kumaar. All themes are composed by Sanchit Balhara..  War received generally positive reviews from critics; on the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds a rating of 73% based on 15 reviews, with an average rating of 7/10. Among positive reviews, a writer for Bollywood Hungama gave the film four stars out of five, and said "War is a action entertainer which has style as well as enough twists and turns to keep the viewers engrossed. At the box office, the extended weekend, dazzling action, stunning international locales and stylish execution will ensure mammoth footfalls for the film". Republic World gave the film four and a half stars out of five, writing, "Epic action spectacle, rides on watertight script, worldclass action, fast paced and thrilling screenplay. Hrithik Roshan's performance is iconic, Tiger Shroff delivers career best act. Siddhart's vision and direction is superlative". Taran Adarsh gave it four stars out of five and called the film " is a painfully condescending ode to Muslim loyalty to our vatan, an ode that is particularly cynical and offensive". Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV gave the film one and a half stars out of five and stated, "Powered by two loose-limbed and resolutely stone-faced male leads, Hrithik and Tiger, War is all style and no substance". War opened with collection of on its first day. It is the highest opening day collection for Bollywood films. On the second day it collected , On the third day it collected , taking its total collection to . War has already created six new records as the film reaches to 100 crore mark at the box-office. The film entered the 100 crore club in three days of its release. The extended opening weekend collection of the film at 166.25 crore is the highest opening weekend collection for any 2019 Bollywood film. The film by crossing 200 crore in its opening week has become the fastest Bollywood film of 2019 to achieve the feat. , with gross of 378.46 crore from India and 96.33 crore from overseas, the film has grossed 474.79 crore worldwide, and has become the of 2019.. After the success of the film, the director Siddharth Anand mentioned that he had an idea to convert the movie into a franchise, depending on the audience reaction.