The Tesla Cybertruck is an all-electric battery-powered light commercial vehicle in development by Tesla, Inc. Three models have been announced, with range estimates of and an estimated 0–60 mph time of 2.9–6.5 seconds, depending on the model. The stated goal of Tesla in developing Cybertruck is to provide a sustainable energy substitute for the roughly 6,500 fossil fuel powered trucks sold per day in the United States. The base price of the rear-wheel drive model of the vehicle will be $39,900, with all-wheel drive models starting at $49,900.. The truck will use self-leveling suspension which compensates for variable load and some models will have all-wheel drive. Other standard features include on-board power inverters for supplying both 120 and 240-Volt electricity, allowing use of power tools without a portable generator. An air compressor for powering pneumatic tools is included. The exterior is bullet-resistant against 9 mm caliber bullets as well. All vehicles will also come standard with Tesla Autopilot, and will have the hardware capabilities for fully autonomous operation. As of November 2019, Tesla is accepting pre-orders for $100 with a $7,000 'full self-driving' option. Range of the Cybertruck varies from , depending on configuration selections. The interior of the prototype unveiled on 21 November 2019 includes a 17-inch center display, seating for 6 using two bench seats with the front middle seat being a fold-down center arm rest, a digital rear-view camera based mirror, a race car style steering yoke, and a dashboard with a surface resembling marble. The rear middle seat also folds down to allow loading long cargo extending through a door to the vault . The "marble look" dashboard of the unveil prototype vehicle was a paper composite material made from "paper, wood-based fibers, natural wood pigments and non-petroleum based resins." The bed of the truck is long and similar to a conventional pickup truck bed with tailgate. It has sloped side walls and an integral motorized roller shutter style tonneau cover to improve the aerodynamics of the vehicle. Because of the additional security this provides, Tesla terms this enclosed space "the vault". It includes LED light strips along each side, an additional under-floor storage space behind the rear wheels, 110 and 220&nbsp;V AC outlets, and a compressed air outlet for pneumatic tools. One article claims that there is a pass-through to the cabin for long cargo, but this is doubtful, as the displayed prototype lacks any corresponding opening in the front of the bed. One feature demonstrated on the prototype, but not explicitly advertised, is a ramp that extends from the tail gate to the ground for loading cargo.. In 2012 and 2013 Elon Musk discussed the desire to build a truck with load-compensating suspension, making comparisons with a Ford F-250. In early-2014 Musk predicted 4–5 years before work could start on the product. In mid-2016, Musk outlined the intent for a new kind of consumer pickup truck, and suggested using the same chassis for a van and a pickup truck. In late-2017, the size was estimated to be at least that of a Ford F-150, in order to be large enough to enable a "game-changing" feature. During the Tesla Semi and Tesla Roadster unveiling in November 2017, a picture of a "pickup truck that can carry a pickup truck" was displayed. Background ideas had been in preparation for nearly five years. In 2018 Musk speculated on the possibility of a tail lift allowing easier access to ground-level, designed using a four-bar linkage. As of late-2018, Tesla was working on two approaches for the van project: either using a bare-bones Mercedes-Benz Sprinter glider chassis, with Tesla then adding electric transmission, battery and electronics; or alternatively designing and manufacturing the complete vehicle to a Tesla design, requiring more time. At that time Musk anticipated a prototype to be ready to show in 2019. In February 2019, the CEO of Daimler Dieter Zetsche stated that talks with Tesla had been initiated via Jerome Guillen, and were on-going. In March 2019, following the Tesla Model Y launch, Elon Musk distributed a teaser image of a vehicle described as having a cyberpunk or Blade Runner style, with the form resembling a futuristic armoured personnel carrier. It was rumored to be named the Model B. In mid-2019, the towing capacity of the vehicle was stated to meet or exceed that of a Ford F-150. Musk noted that an amphibious vehicle design concept—based partly on Wet Nellie, the submarine car from the film The Spy Who Loved Me—might be possible. Musk had purchased a Wet Nellie used in the filming at a 2013 Sotheby's auction.. The Cybertruck uses unibody construction like most passenger cars, rather than the body-on-frame construction which is typical of trucks, as a standard vehicle frame would conflict with the under-floor battery pack. It uses unusually thick cold-rolled stainless steel body panels, which cannot be stamped like conventional automobile parts. The panels can only be bent along straight lines, resulting in a very distinctive faceted design which has been called "low-poly" or likened to origami. This material is the same material SpaceX uses on the Mars rocket prototype, because it distributes stress more evenly and allows for more interior volume. Earlier design concepts for Cybertruck had included using Titanium for the outer panels, but this was later switched to stainless steel for additional strength. The powertrain is similar to the Model S/X, with an inductive rear motor and the Model 3's permanent-magnet in front for the medium model. Other versions are single-motor rear wheel drive, or tri-motor with one front and two rear motors. Similarly to Tesla's other vehicle offerings, customers can pre-order the Full Self Driving software upgrade, adding an additional $7,000 to the price of the configuration. All specifications will have of storage space, and a cargo area. As on off-road vehicle, of ground clearance is provided, with a 35 degree approach angle, and 28 degree departure angle..  In response to queries for an unveiling date, on 27 July 2019 Musk stated "We're close, but the magic is in the final details. Maybe 2 to 3 months", indicating late-2019. The unveiling was scheduled for 21 November 2019 at the Tesla Design Studio, next to SpaceX headquarters in Los Angeles—the same month, year and location as Blade Runner is set in. During the presentation, Musk demonstrated the durability of the vehicle and its materials. Despite successful drop tests conducted on a pane of the specialized 'Tesla armor glass' and a successful pre-show test where a steel ball was thrown at the windows of the truck itself by chief of design Franz von Holzhausen with apparently no damage, the windows were damaged when Holzhausen repeated the test during the show. Musk jokingly exclaimed that "the ball didn't make it through" and "we'll fix it in post" after the unexpected outcomes. He later explained that the windows were damaged because the sledgehammer's impact on the door cracked the base of the glass. At the end, the Tesla Cyberquad, an all-terrain vehicle , was driven onto the bed of the Cybertruck using built-in ramps in the . The Cyberquad was plugged into the Cybertruck's onboard power outlet to charge the Cyberquad batteries. The ATV will be available for sale as a package with the Cybertruck. The Cybertruck unveiling event was covered heavily by traditional media and online blogs/social media. In social media, many commentators expressed dislike of the sharp contours and unusual exterior of the Cybertruck. Tesla, Inc. stock was down 6% following the Cybertruck announcement. Some news outlets like the BBC reported that the fall was simply as a result of the turnout of events during the unveiling on 21 November 2019. On 23 November 2019, Elon Musk tweeted that Tesla had received 146,000 pre-orders in the first 1.5 days after the unveiling—each requiring a refundable deposit—with 42% choosing the dual-motor configuration, 41% choosing the tri-motor configuration, and 17% choosing the single-motor configuration. On 25 November 2019, this number rose to over 200,000 and over 250,000 on 27 November continuing the rise. Additionally, a video of the Cybertruck pulling the Ford F-150 uphill in a tug of war resulted in 14,000 comments and 619,000 likes on Twitter. Ford has requested a rematch and Tesla has agreed in principle to do one in the future.. Tesla Cybertruck production is scheduled to start in late 2021 and expand to offer more configurations in 2022. In the United States, the total addressable market for full-sized pickup trucks is over two million vehicles per year. It has been argued that the Cybertruck will be able to take advantage of the Tesla Network of shared vehicles to generate an income stream, if the latter were to become available in United States and worldwide.