Naomi Grace Scott .. Scott was born on 6 May 1993 in Hounslow, London. Her mother, Usha Joshi, was born in Uganda, of Indian Gujarati descent, and emigrated to the United Kingdom at a young age. Naomi's father, Christopher, is English. Scott also has an older brother, Joshua Scott. Both her parents are pastors at the Bridge Church, Woodford in Redbridge, North East London. Scott has participated in missionary and outreach work. She attended Davenant Foundation School in Loughton, Essex.. Scott began her singing career with the Bridge Church Youth Band. She attended Davenant Foundation School and performed regularly in school musicals and drama productions. She was later discovered by British pop singer Kéllé Bryan from the girl group Eternal, who signed her as a client. She went to work with British songwriters and producers Xenomania. In 2014, the YouTube channel "Reload" published two videos featuring her, as part of their "Reload Sessions" series. Her first major acting role was a Disney Channel UK series Life Bites. In 2010, she was cast as Mohini "Mo" Banjaree in the 2011 Disney Channel original film Lemonade Mouth, her first role in an American production. That same year she was cast as Maddy Shannon in the science-fiction series Terra Nova, which premiered in September 2011 on Fox. The series was not renewed for a second season. In 2013, Scott appeared in the music video for the song "Hurricane", by her Lemonade Mouth co-star Bridgit Mendler. In August 2014, she independently released her debut EP Invisible Division. Scott was cast as Ryoko in Ridley Scott's The Martian. She filmed her scenes but they were removed from the final cut. Screen International selected Scott as one of their 2015 Stars of Tomorrow. In October 2015, she was cast in a co-leading role as Kimberly Hart, the Pink Ranger, in Power Rangers and she is given far more interesting ambitions this time around. Scott gives the character a dignity and drive that makes it easier to root for her than poor old Al." Johnny Oleksinski of The New York Post found Scott's version of Jasmine, "lovely" and also had "more agency and less passiveness" than in the original version. The San Francisco Chronicles critic Mick LaSalle found Scott to be the "real star" of the film and she "thrives and gives everything to her new power anthem" that was written for the film. The Washington Posts Michael O'Sullivan praised Scott's portrayal as someone, "who doesn’t just dream of escaping from under her father’s restrictive rules about whom she can marry," but is also "super-feminist". Richard Roeper of Chicago Sun-Times described Scott's performance as "winning. " He added, "She also gets the chance to shine and absolutely sparkles" in the new song, "Speechless". For her performance, Scott won the Teen Choice Award for Choice Movie Actress – Sci-Fi/Fantasy and also received a nomination for the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress. Aladdin was also commercially successful, grossing $1 billion at the box office as of July 2019. In July 2018, it was confirmed that Scott would star as one of the three leads in the 2019 Elizabeth Banks-directed reboot film of Charlie's Angels. The film was released on 15 November 2019.. In June 2014, Scott married footballer Jordan Spence after four years of dating.