Tesla, Inc. ,, Cybertruck, and Semi vehicles. Tesla also sells Powerwall, Powerpack, and Megapack batteries, , , and some related products. Tesla was founded in July 2003, by engineers Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning, under the name Tesla Motors. The company's name is a tribute to engineer Nikola Tesla. In early Series A funding, Tesla Motors was joined by Elon Musk, J. B. Straubel and Ian Wright, all of whom are retroactively allowed to call themselves co-founders of the company. Musk, who formerly served as chairman and is the current chief executive officer, said that he envisioned Tesla Motors as a technology company and independent automaker, aimed at eventually offering electric cars at prices affordable to the average consumer. Tesla Motors shortened its name to Tesla in February 2017. After 10 years in the market, Tesla ranked as the world's best selling plug-in passenger car manufacturer in 2018, both as a brand and by automotive group, with 245,240 units delivered and a market share of 12% of the plug-in segment sales. Tesla vehicle sales in the U.S. increased by 280% from 48,000 in 2017 to 182,400 in 2018, and globally were up by 138% from 2017. However, Tesla has never had a profitable year.. Tesla Motors was incorporated in July 2003 by Martin Eberhard and Marc Tarpenning who financed the company until the Series A round of funding. The founders were influenced to start the company after GM recalled all its EV1 electric cars in 2003 and then destroyed them. Elon Musk led the Series A round of investment in February 2004, joining Tesla's board of directors as its chairman. Tesla's primary goal was to commercialize electric vehicles, starting with a premium sports car aimed at early adopters and then moving into more mainstream vehicles, including sedans and affordable compacts. Musk took an active role within the company and oversaw Roadster product design at a detailed level. In addition to his daily operational roles, Musk was the controlling investor in Tesla from the first financing round, funding $6.5M the Series A capital investment round of with personal funds. Musk later led Tesla Motors' Series B, $9M of , and co-led the third, $12M of round in May 2006. Tesla's third round included investment from prominent entrepreneurs including Google co-founders Sergey Brin & Larry Page, former eBay President Jeff Skoll, Hyatt heir Nick Pritzker and added the VC firms Draper Fisher Jurvetson, Capricorn Management and The Bay Area Equity Fund managed by JPMorgan Chase. The fourth round in May 2007 added another and brought the total investments to over through private financing. Tesla has been reporting net losses most quarters for many years. In 3Q2019, Tesla surprised analysts, who had been anticipating a quarterly loss of approximately 40 cents per share, with adjusted earnings of per share, on total quarterly revenue of .. Tesla's business strategy is to emulate and initially target affluent buyers, and then move into larger markets at lower price points. The battery and electric drivetrain technology for each model would be developed and partially paid for through the sales of earlier models. The Roadster was low-volume and priced at . Model S and Model X targeted the broader luxury market. Model 3 and the Model Y is aimed at a higher-volume segment. This business strategy is common in the technology industry. According to a Musk blog post, "New technology in any field takes a few versions to optimize before reaching the mass market, and in this case it is competing with 150 years and trillions of dollars spent on gasoline cars." Tesla's production strategy includes a high degree of vertical integration , the Toyota RAV4 EV, and Freightliner's Custom Chassis Electric Van. Vertical integration is rare in the automotive industry, where companies typically outsource 80% of components to suppliers, and focus on engine manufacturing and final assembly. Tesla's sales strategy is to sell its vehicles online and in company-owned showrooms rather than through a conventional dealer network. Moving towards an e-commerce strategy, customers are able to customize and order their vehicles online. Tesla's technology strategy focuses on pure-electric propulsion technology, and transferring other approaches from the technology industry to transportation, such as online software updates. Tesla allows its technology patents to be used by anyone in good faith. Licensing agreements include provisions whereby the recipient agrees not to file patent suits against Tesla, or to copy its designs directly. Tesla retained control of its other intellectual property, such as trademarks and trade secrets to prevent direct copying of its technology. Tesla Human Resources VP Arnnon Geshuri committed to bringing manufacturing jobs "back to California". In 2015, Geshuri led a hiring surge about which he said: "In the last 14 months we've had 1.5 million applications from around the world. People want to work here." Geshuri emphasizes hiring veterans, saying "Veterans are a great source of talent for Tesla, and we're going after it.". Tesla's global sales since 2012 totaled over 720,000 units at the end of Q2 2019, of which, over 245,000 were delivered in 2018, up almost 138% from 2017. Year over year Tesla U.S. vehicle sales from 2017 to 2018 increased by 280% from 48,000 to 182,400. , Tesla's sales represented about 20% of the all-electric cars on the world's roads, according to Navigant Research. In July 2017, Tesla said their vehicles had traveled 5 billion miles should be accepted as a legal compliance document, with no need to seek specific national type of approvals in EU member states. In 2017 Tesla had a US$52 million marketing budget and used a referral program and word of mouth to attract buyers. Tesla deliveries vary significantly by month due to regional issues such as ship availability and registration. Tesla does not follow the former auto industry standard of monthly reporting; GM and Ford changed from monthly to quarterly sales reporting in 2018 and 2019. Some monthly sales are estimated by media. Tesla operates stores and galleries—usually located in shopping malls—in many U.S. states. However, customers buy vehicles only from the Tesla website. The stores serve as showrooms that allow people to learn about the company and its vehicles. Some galleries are located in states with restrictive dealer protection laws that prohibit discussing price, financing, and test drives, as well as other restrictions. Tesla's strategy of direct customer sales and owning stores and service centers is different from the standard dealership model in the global vehicle marketplace. Tesla is the only automaker that sells cars directly to consumers; all others use independently owned dealerships, although many provide online configuration and financing. 48 states have laws that limit or ban manufacturers from selling vehicles directly to consumers, and although Tesla has no independent dealerships, dealership associations in multiple states have filed lawsuits over Tesla's sales practices. Countries other than U.S. do not protect dealers. The Federal Trade Commission recommends allowing direct manufacturer sales, which analysts believe would save consumers 8% in average vehicle price. In February 2019, Tesla announced that it would shut down the bulk of its stores and begin to sell cars exclusively through the internet. The next month, the company reversed its decision, saying in a government filing that it would only close about half the number of showrooms it had originally intended to. Under a buyback program called the Resale Value Guarantee available in 37 U.S. states, a Tesla Model S sold new before July 1, 2016 included the right to return it after three years with reimbursement of 43% to 50% of its initial price. This reimbursement matched the trade-in values of competitive German luxury cars of that age. In addition to maintaining the resale value, Tesla hoped to secure a supply of used cars to refurbish and re-sell with warranty. According to Automotive News, the profit margin on used car sales in the U.S. is about triple that on new cars, and Tesla's direct sales would allow them to capture resale profits. Tesla ended the program in 2016, although they retained the Residual Value Guarantee on leased vehicles. In May 2015, Tesla started selling refurbished Model S cars in the U.S. and within a month sold 1,600 cars. As of July 2017, over 80 used Model S and Model X cars were for sale, with either a four-year, 50,000-mile warranty or a two-year, 100,000-mile warranty for vehicles above 50,000 miles. As of September 2015, similar programs existed in Canada, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Britain, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland.. As a vertically integrated manufacturer, Tesla has had to master multiple technology domains, including batteries, electric motors, sensors, and artificial intelligence. Unlike other automakers, Tesla does not use individual large battery cells, but thousands of small, cylindrical, lithium-ion commodity cells like those used in consumer electronics. It uses a version of these cells that is designed to be cheaper to manufacture and lighter than standard cells by removing some safety features. According to Tesla, these features are redundant because of the advanced thermal management system and an intumescent chemical in the battery to prevent fires. Panasonic is the sole supplier of the cells for Model S, Model X, and Model 3 and cooperates with Tesla in the Gigafactory 1's '' cells. In February 2016, Tesla battery cell costs were estimated at US$200 per kWh. Tesla indicated later in 2016 that their battery cells cost less than $190/kWh. Still later that year Argonne Labs estimated $163/kWh at a production rate of 500,000 packs per year. In the 2018 Tesla Shareholder meeting, Elon Musk stated battery cell cost could be $100/kWh in 2018. 2020 would bring $100/kWh Tesla battery packs . HW2 includes eight cameras and twelve ultrasonic sensors, in addition to forward-facing radar. HW2.5 was released in mid-2017 that upgraded HW2 with a second GPU and, for the Model 3 only, a driver-facing camera. HW3 were first installed in Model S and X's in q1 2019 and Model 3 followed quickly At the end of 2016, Tesla expected to demonstrate full autonomy by the end of 2017, which is now expected in 2019. In April 2017 Musk predicted that in around two years drivers would be able to sleep in their vehicle while it drives itself. In April 2019, Tesla announced that all cars, excluding the Tesla Model 3, will include autopilot moving forward. In November 2016, the company announced the Tesla glass technology group. The group produced the for the Tesla Model 3 and for use in SolarCity announced in October 2016. The tiles contain an embedded solar collector, and are one-third lighter than standard roof tiles.. , Tesla offers three car models: the Model S, Model X and Model 3. The firm's first vehicle, the first-generation Tesla Roadster is no longer sold. Model S deliveries began on June 22, 2012. The first delivery in Europe took place in August 2013. Deliveries in China began in April 2014. First deliveries of the right-hand-drive model destined for the UK, Australia, Hong Kong and Japan came in 2014. As of August 2019, the Model S has two configurations: the Model S Long Range, and the Model S Performance with EPA ranges of , and respectively. With an estimated 50,931 units sold in 2016, the Model S ranked was the world's best-selling plug-in car for the second year in a row. , the Model S, with global sales of 250,000 units, ranks as the world's second best selling plug-in electric car in history after the Nissan Leaf in California from 2008 to 2012. The Roadster was the first highway legal serial production all-electric car to use lithium-ion battery cells and the first production all-electric car to travel more than per charge. It is also the first production car to be launched into orbit, carried by a Falcon Heavy rocket in a test flight on February 6, 2018. In 2016, Musk indicated he hoped to one day produce a car cheaper than the Model 3: Musk wanted the first three models to spell "SEX", but Ford owns the trademark to "Model E", so he settled for "S3XY" by making the Model Y. On July 20, 2016, Musk detailed his new master plan for Tesla. It includes more affordable cars produced in higher volume, solar-power roofs, mid-size vehicles, SUVs and pickup trucks, as well as the refinement of autonomous vehicles and the creation of a sharing economy, in which cars can be active while the owner is not using them. Tesla intends to build a minibus on the Model X platform. In May 2017, Musk indicated that he might favor a 10-12 passenger version of the Model X over a dedicated minibus design. At the company's annual shareholder meeting in June 2018, Musk revealed Tesla's intention to enter a new market segment, offering a compact hatchback in "less than five years". He provided no details, and dodged a question about also producing a subcompact. Musk also put to rest hopes for a Tesla motorcycle, saying "we’re not going to do motorcycles". However, in November 2019 during the unveiling of the Tesla Cybertruck, Musk also unveiled a Tesla ATV that was capable of charging from the cargo bed of the Cybertruck. In April 2019 Elon Musk announced Tesla is going to launch an unmanned taxi by the end of 2020. The company plans to have more than 1 million unmanned vehicles by this time.. In April 2015, the company unveiled its Powerwall home and Powerpack industrial battery packs, and quickly received orders valued at US$800 million. The two models included a 7 kilowatt-hour of battery storage. In May 2016, regulators had ordered SCE to invest in utility-scale battery systems to compensate local power supply after natural gas provider Southern California Gas leaked of methane into the atmosphere when a well ruptured at its Aliso Canyon Natural Gas Storage Facility, closing it permanently. In November 2016, American Samoa's island of Ta'u with a population of approximately 600 was converted to a solar and battery microgrid from diesel-based energy generation. In 2018, two microgrid projects were built in Samoa on the main island of Upolu: one at the Fiaga power station and one at the Faleolo International Airport. After Hurricane Maria in September 2017, Elon Musk offered to work with Puerto Rico's government in rebuilding the island's electrical grid. In October 2017, Tesla brought 700 solar panels to the "Hospital del Niño," where the batteries helped bring care back to 3,000 patients who needed constant care. In June 2017, Hawaii's island received a large solar and battery installation, converting the island's energy generation to 97% solar. In July 2017, Tesla won a contract to install the lithium battery in South Australia by promising installation within 100 days. The Hornsdale Power Reserve with total power capacity of 100 megawatts was connected to the grid on December 1, 2017. As of January 2019, Tesla was in talks with the government of Greece to provide solar and battery system for their islands with a proposed pilot on Limnos. In February 2019, Tesla announced that it planned to acquire ultracapacitor energy storage manufacturer Maxwell Technologies. In July 2019, Tesla unveiled Megapack, a containerized battery product for utility-scale projects. Each Megapack comes fully assembled from the factory with up to 3 MWh of storage and 1.5 MW of inverter capacity..  In 2012, Tesla began building a network of 480-volt fast-charging Supercharger stations. , there are 1,375 Supercharger stations operated globally with 11,414 superchargers. The Supercharger is a proprietary direct current technology that provides up to 250&nbsp;kW of power, resulting in a full charge in around 40 minutes. Tesla cars can recommend the fastest route for long-distance travel, incorporating possible charging delays. All Tesla cars come standard with Supercharging hardware. Model S and X cars ordered after January 15, 2017 get 400 kWh of free Supercharging credits, which provides a range of roughly per year. Cars purchased before that date received free supercharging. From August 3, 2019, all Tesla Model X's and S's come standard with unlimited supercharging. In December 2016, after a complaint sent to Musk via Twitter about abuse, Tesla announced that it will start charging an "idle" fee for vehicles that continue to occupy charging stations after they are fully charged. In 2014, Tesla discreetly launched the "Destination Charging Location" Network by providing chargers to hotels, restaurants, shopping centers, resorts and other full service stations to provide on-site vehicle charging at twice the power of a typical charging location. On April 25, 2016, Tesla launched European destination charging, with 150 locations and more to be added later. Chargers are installed free of charge by Tesla-certified contractors. All installed chargers appear in the in-car navigation system.. In addition to its corporate headquarters, the company operates multiple large factories for making vehicles and their components. The company operates showrooms and galleries around the world. Tesla was founded in San Carlos, California. Tesla's first retail stores were in Los Angeles, in Menlo Park, California and in Manhattan's Chelsea art district, followed by others in major US cities. In 2010, Tesla moved its corporate headquarters and opened a powertrain development facility in Palo Alto. Tesla's first assembly plant occupies the former NUMMI plant in Fremont, California. It is known as the Tesla Factory. As of 2016, the plant was not highly automated—it was expected to produce some 80,000 cars with 6,000 workers compared to a "typical" plant that might produce 250,000 cars with 3,000 workers. The 370-acre car body to reduce EU import tax. Musk confirmed in June 2014 and November 2016 its long-term plans to build a car and battery Gigafactory in Europe, which several countries have campaigned to host. In late 2016, Tesla acquired German engineering firm Grohmann Engineering in Prüm as a new division dedicated to helping Tesla increase the automation and effectiveness of its manufacturing process. After winding down existing contracts with other auto manufacturers, Grohmann works exclusively on Tesla projects. As of February 2018, Tesla is building a small research and development office in Athens, Greece. In July 2018, it was reported that Tesla was exploring building its first major European factory in Germany or the Netherlands. In November 2019, Elon Musk announced plans to build Gigafactory 4 in the Berlin area. Showrooms and service centers operate in Hong Kong, Beijing and Shanghai. Tesla opened its first Japanese showroom in Tokyo, Japan, in October 2010. In South Korea, it opened two showrooms in March 2017 and a service center in late 2017. In August, 2017, Taiwan opened its first service center and showroom. In July 2018, Tesla signed an agreement with Chinese authorities to build a factory in Shanghai, China, which is Tesla's first Gigafactory outside of the United States. The groundbreaking ceremony was held on January 7, 2019. Tesla opened a showroom and a service center in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, in 2017 as the first expansion of Tesla in the Middle East. Five ultra-fast superchargers were also built between cities with a planned 50 destination chargers in the United Arab Emirates by the end of 2017. The Dubai Department of Economic Development stated that it will assist Tesla expansion across the United Arab Emirates as well as neighboring countries in the Middle East. One of the first Tesla customers was Dubai's Roads and Transport Authority which ordered 200 Tesla Model S and Model X vehicles that were added to Dubai Taxi Corporation's fleet. Tesla opened a showroom in Sydney's Martin Place in 2010, followed by a showroom and service center in Melbourne in 2015. By 2019, Tesla had opened 4 service centers in Australia.. Unlike many traditional manufacturers, Tesla operates as an original equipment manufacturer cells and modules at Gigafactory 2 in Buffalo, New York. In August 2015, Tesla partnered with Airbnb to provide destination chargers at certain host houses, initially in California. Tesla partnered with Liberty Mutual Insurance Company to offer an auto-insurance plan designed specifically for its electric cars. The plan was made available to US customers In October 2017..  , Tesla had issued two product recalls for the , six for the Model S and two for the . On April 20, 2017, Tesla issued a worldwide recall of 53,000 when the vehicle's web browser was used while the vehicle was connected to a malicious Wi-Fi hotspot. This was the first case of a remote control exploit demonstrated on a Tesla. The vulnerability was disclosed to Tesla under their bug bounty program and patched within 10 days, before the exploit was made public. Tencent also hacked the doors of a Model X in 2017. In January 2018, security researchers informed Tesla that an Amazon Web Services account of theirs could be accessed directly from the Internet and that the account had been exploited for cryptocurrency mining. Tesla responded by securing the compromised system, rewarding the security researchers financially via their bug bounty program, and stating that the compromise did not violate customer privacy, nor vehicle safety or security. In 2019, Tesla awarded a car and $375,000 to benevolent hackers during a Pwn2Own Model 3 Hacking Event. Tesla offers service at its service centers. If a center is not available, mobile technicians can perform most inspections and repairs. In 2016, Tesla recommended to have any Tesla car inspected every 12,500 miles or once a year, whichever comes first. In early 2019, the manual was changed to say: "your Tesla does not require annual maintenance and regular fluid changes," and instead it recommends periodic servicing of the brake fluid, air conditioning, tires and air filters. The first units for each new model revealed design and manufacturing flaws, including the Model S and the Model X. As the Tesla vehicle fleet grew, the number of service centers resulted in waiting periods for some owners. Auto experts view the service delays as insignificant, as owners accept the challenges of servicing a new type of car. Tesla does not provide service manuals except in jurisdictions that required them to do so. At the June 2018 shareholder meeting, Elon Musk confirmed that Tesla will soon start to open its first body shops in the top ten U.S. metropolitan areas, stocking some body parts, potentially allowing for same-day service.. In response to constant state auto dealers associations lobbying to prevent Tesla from selling cars directly to the public, Tesla has lobbied in several states for the right to sell cars. In June 2017, Tesla made a "last-minute push near the end of the Albany legislative session to expand its sales force in New York." New York State Legislature bill A.8248/S.6600 would allow Tesla to operate 20 sales locations in the state, up from its current 5. Automotive dealers attacked the bill, arguing that it would hurt their business because Tesla does not sell through dealers. According to the New York Law Journal, "Tesla . . . has its own in-house lobbyists, according to disclosures filed with the state's lobbying entity." The bill did not get to the floor of either house.. , the Tesla board of directors consists of: Robyn Denholm, Chairman of Tesla, Inc. CFO and Head of Strategy of Telstra Elon Musk, CEO and Product Architect of Tesla; founder, CEO and CTO of SpaceX; Chairman of SolarCity Brad W. Buss, Former CFO of SolarCity; former CFO of Cypress Semiconductor Corp Ira Ehrenpreis, General Partner at Technology Partners Larry Ellison, Co-founder, Chairman and CTO of Oracle Corporation Antonio J. Gracias, CEO and Chairman of the Investment Committee at Valor Equity Partners Steve Jurvetson, Managing Director, Draper Fisher Jurvetson Kimbal Musk, Co-founder of The Kitchen James Murdoch, former CEO of 21st Century Fox Linda Johnson Rice, CEO and Chairman of Johnson Publishing CompanyKathleen Wilson-Thompson, Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc. A group of investors asked Tesla in a 2017 public letter to add two new independent directors to its board “who do not have any ties with chief executive Elon Musk”. The investors wrote that “five of six current non-executive directors have professional or personal ties to Mr. Musk that could put at risk their ability to exercise independent judgement.” The letter called for a more independent board that could put a check on groupthink. At first Musk responded on Twitter, writing that the investors "should buy Ford stock" because "their governance is amazing.” Two days later, he promised he would add two independent board members.. *Riviera Tool LLC - Riviera Tool is a manufacturer of stamping die systems used to form sheet metal parts. The acquisition was announced on May 8, 2015. Riviera Tool LLC was acquired for an unknown price.SolarCity - SolarCity provides solar energy services to homeowners, businesses, government, and non-profit organizations. The acquisition was announced on June 22, 2016. The acquisition price was US$2.6 billion.Grohmann Engineering - Grohmann Engineering is a German engineering company based in Prüm. The acquisition was announced on November 2016. The price was US$135 million.Perbix - Perbix designs automated manufacturing equipment. The acquisition was announced on November 7, 2017. It was an all-stock acquisition for about US$10.5 million.Maxwell Technologies - Maxwell Technologies manufactures and markets energy storage and power delivery solutions for automobiles. The planned acquisition was announced February 4, 2019 and completed on May 2019. It was an all-stock acquisition for $218 million.DeepScale - DeepScale develops perceptual system technologies for automated vehicles. The acquisition was announced on October 1 for an undisclosed amount.Hibar Systems Ltd - Hibar Systems Ltd in Ontario, Canada is world renown for advanced automation solutions for small cell batteries through a mechanized pump injection system. The acquisition was quietly discovered in Federal lobbyist registry database as of October 2, 2019. The value of the acquisition was unknown at that time.