Born as Maude Rose Rubens, in Pretoria, South Africa, she adopted the name "Lores" later in preference to her given names. The family moved first to England, then to Australia. After education first in Melbourne, and then at a finishing school in Germany, she met and married Harry Barrington Bonney, a leather goods manufacturer, in 1917 and moved to Brisbane, Queensland.. In 1928 she met Bert Hinkler, Harry Bonney's first cousin once removed and a Queensland aviator who had set a solo England–Australia record in his Avro Avian biplane . His exploits fired her imagination and her first flight in his Avian confirmed her determination to learn to fly. She took her first lessons secretly, but when she told her husband, he bought her the de Havilland DH.60 Gypsy Moth with which she began her record-breaking flights: The outbreak of the Second World War ended her flying career just as she was planning her next flight – around the world, via Japan, Alaska and the United States. The Klemm L32-V VH-UVE was destroyed in a hangar fire in 1939. VH-UPV was requisitioned for the war effort, deployed to a flying training unit, declared unserviceable and scrapped after the war. During the war, Bonney served on the executive of the Queensland branch of the Women’s Voluntary National Register. She returned to flying after the war but retired in 1949 due to failing eyesight. During the 1950s she was president of the Queensland branch of the Australian Women Pilots’ Association. Bonney died at her home in Miami on Queensland's Gold Coast in 1994, aged 96.. For her Australia–England flight, Bonney was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire by King George V. The Bonney Trophy which she presented in England is still awarded annually to an outstanding female British pilot. The Australian Women Pilots Association has established a trophy in her honour. Lores Bonney was inducted into the "Ninety-Nines", the American society of women flyers who had pioneering roles in aviation. Her name and her wings were placed on the wall of the Flyer's Chapel at California's alongside the names of Charles Lindbergh, Charles Kingsford Smith and Amelia Earhart. Griffith University, Queensland, awarded her an honorary doctorate for her services to aviation. Despite other women pilots of her era receiving more promotion and publicity, Lores Bonney has been publicly recognised in Brisbane in a number of ways since she died: The electoral district of Bonney created in the 2017 Queensland state electoral redistribution was named after her. The Lores Bonney Riverwalk was opened in 2019 as part of the Kingsford Smith Drive upgrade project by Brisbane City Council, along the Brisbane River in the suburb of Hamilton. Bonney featured in a Google Doodle on 20th November 2019, 122 years after her birth.. *1934 – Member of the Order of the British Empire1991 – Member of the Order of Australia