'Everyday Life' is the eighth studio album by British rock band Coldplay, released on 22 November 2019. It has two parts, with the first half titled 'Sunrise' and the other 'Sunset'.. On 13 October 2019, black-and-white posters featuring the band teasing the album, and the date "22 November 1919" appeared in various cities around the world, including São Paulo, Berlin, Hong Kong and Sydney. On 19 October, a video teaser featuring the same theme was also released. Two days later, several fans began receiving typewritten notes from the band in the mail. On 23 October, the track listing was announced by the band in the advertising sections of several newspapers around the world. This included the North Wales Daily Post, where guitarist Jonny Buckland "once had a holiday job". The 19 November edition of the New Zealand newspaper Otago Daily Times featured advertisements containing lyrics to the tracks from the album. During an online press conference on 1 November, Coldplay announced they would perform Everyday Life in two shows in Amman, Jordan on 22 November, the release date of the album. The first show showcased the band performing the first half of the album Sunrise at 4:00 a.m. GMT, and the second show featured the performance of Sunset at 2:00 p.m. GMT. The shows, which were livestreamed on YouTube, marked the band's first ever performances in the country. Both shows were promoted and advertised as YouTube Originals. The two shows were performed without an audience, but the following night the band performed their first public show at the Citadel in Jordan's capital city Amman. On 18 November, the band announced a one-off show at the London Natural History Museum on 25 November, with proceeds from the show to be donated to an environmental charity. However, the band announced that they would not play a world tour to promote the album until they had addressed concerns regarding travel and the environmental impact of the shows.. "Orphans" and "Arabesque" were released as the album's lead singles on 24 October 2019 on the Annie Mac show on BBC Radio 1. "Everyday Life" was released as the third single on 3 November 2019. "Daddy" and "Champion of the World" were released as the album's fourth and fifth singles on 20 November 2019.. Everyday Life received generally positive reviews from critics. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalised rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album has an average score of 74 out of 100 based on 21 reviews, which indicates "generally favorable reviews". Writing for The Daily Telegraph, Neil McCormick acclaimed the experimentation of the album, stating that Everyday Life "feels organic, analogue and playful as Coldplay dip into different musical genres," and further highlighted Martin's "golden gift for melody, almost simplistically direct lyrics and emotive crooning." Chris DeVille of Stereogum considered that the album's experimentation and use of multiple genres worked "more often than not," and commended the band's "more nuanced" exploration of social issues, concluding that it was a "truly great album." In her review for NME, Charlotte Krol claimed that the record "is proof that Coldplay are more adventurous than they're often given credit for," despite some of its songs being "sometimes more exciting in theory than in practice." Other reviewers were less enthusiastic about the album's experimentation. Although The Guardians Alexis Petridis considered it a "laudable intention," he found the album "wildly uneven" and was critical of the "lyrical vagueness" of various songs dealing with "sociopolitical matters," but complimented "a couple of acoustic tracks with genuine emotional heft." In the same vein, Adam White of The Independent described the album as a "valiant, if flawed, attempt to break from tradition" and a "fascinating, occasionally brilliant curio," but considered that the band were "still very much figuring out how to respond to a world that has become meaner, dirtier and crueller," nevertheless considering the effort admirable. Ludovic Hunter-Tilney of the Financial Times found the album "platitudinising," but considered Martin's songwriting "more focused than usual;" he additionally noted the album's "quirky production" and balancing of "contradictory urges to play it safe and take a risk.". Everyday Life debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart, becoming Coldplay's eighth UK number-one album. The album was the third-fastest selling album of 2019 in the UK, behind No.6 Collaborations Project and Divinely Uninspired to a Hellish Extent. It also debuted at number at seven on the US Billboard 200 with 48,000 album-equivalent units, including 36,000 pure album sales.. Notes indicates a co-producer indicates an additional producer Producers Rik Simpson, Dan Green and Bill Rahko are credited collectively as "The Dream Team". "Broken" is stylised as "BROKШN" on physical copies, while on digital media is stylised as "BrokEn". "WOTW / POTP" stands for and is rendered in the physical edition liner notes as "Wonder of the World / Power of the People". "Church" features female vocals by Norah Shaqur. "Broken" features a choir consisting of Mabvuto Carpenter, Denise Green, Stevie Mackey, Neka Hamilton, Surrenity XYZ, LaMarcus Eldrigde and Dorian Holley. "Arabesque" features vocals by Stromae. "When I Need a Friend" features the choir conducted by Ben Parry. "God = Love" is only available on the physical CD edition of the album. It consists of a 30 second field recording of clock tower bells spread across 8 tracks. The track titles of this section are revealed when the CD is loaded into a computer. "Orphans" features a choir consisting of Marwa Kreitem, Nadeen Fanous, Garine Antreassian, Bashar Murad, Norah Shaqur, Apple Martin, Moses Martin, Ben Oerlemans, Bill Rahko, Aluna and Jocelyn 'Jozzy' Donald. "Èkó" features backing vocals by Tiwa Savage. "بنی آدم" features the voice of Dr. Shahrzad , Soweto, Johannesburg. "Arabesque" includes an excerpt from the film Music Is the Weapon. "When I Need a Friend" includes a sample from the film Everything Is Incredible. "Cry Cry Cry" contains elements from "Cry, Baby", written by Bert Berns and Jerry Ragovoy. "" contains a sample from "The Sun", written by Alice Coltrane. "" and "Champion of the World" contain a sample from "Otuto Nke Chukwu", as performed by Harcourt Whyte. "Champion of the World" contains an interpolation of "Los Angeles, Be Kind", written by Scott Hutchison, Simon Lidell and Andy Monaghan.. Credits adapted from the "Orphans / Arabesque" liner notes. Guy Berryman – bass guitar , hand clap , percussion Will Champion – drums and percussion , keyboards and backing vocals Jonny Buckland – guitar Chris Martin – guitar, keyboards, and lead vocals, hand clap and piano Aluna – choir vocal Garine Antreassian – choir vocal Jocelyn 'Jozzy' Donald – choir vocal Nadeen Fanous – choir vocal Marwa Kreitem – choir vocal Apple Martin – choir vocal Moses Martin – choir vocal Bashar Murad – choir vocal Ben Oerlemans – choir vocal Bill Rahko – choir vocal Norah Shaqur – choir vocal Stromae – vocals Omorinmade Anikulapo-Kuti – alto saxophone Babatunde Ankra – trombone Drew Goddard – guitar Daniel Green – keyboards Samir Joubran – guitar Wissam Joubran – guitar Adnan Joubran – guitar Femi Kuti – horn Made Kuti – orchestrionics Ayoola Magbagbeola – tenor saxophone Max Martin – keyboards Gbenga Ogundeji – trumpet Bill Rahko – keyboards Davide Rossi – strings Rik Simpson – keyboards Daniel Green – producer , programming Emily Lazar – mastering Max Martin – producer and programming Bill Rahko – producer , programming Rik Simpson – producer , programming Mark "Spike" Stent – mixing Erwan Abbas – assistant engineering Chris Allgood – assistant mastering Lionel Capouillez – additional engineering Michael Freeman – assistant mixing Matt Glasbey – assistant engineering Pierre Houle – additional engineering Adnan Joubran – additional engineering Matt Latham – assistant engineering Baptiste Leroy – assistant engineering Bastien Lozier – additional engineering Issam Murad – assistant engineering Lance Robinson – additional engineering Davide Rossi – additional engineering Anthony De Souza – assistant engineering Federico Vindver – additional engineering Matt Wolach – assistant mixing