Santos Saúl Álvarez Barragán and fourth by the Boxing Writers Association of America. He is also ranked as the world's best active middleweight by the TBRB, the world's sixth best active super middleweight by The Ring and the TBRB, as well as the world’s best active light heavyweight by BoxRec and fourth by the TBRB.. In an interview, Álvarez explained that he was born on the outskirts of Guadalajara, Jalisco, but his family is originally from Los Reyes, Michoacán. At the age of five, his family moved to their current home of Juanacatlán, Jalisco. Growing up on his family's farm, he learned horseback riding, which he continues today. Álvarez is the youngest of eight children, seven of them boys; all of his brothers also became professional boxers. Among his brothers are welterweight boxers Ramón Álvarez, Ricardo Álvarez and former WBA interim world champion, Rigoberto Álvarez. "Canelo" in Spanish is the masculine word for cinnamon, which is a common nickname for people with red hair. His mother, Ana Maria, also has red hair. In Mexico, it is common for people to associate red hair with the Irish soldiers who fought for Mexico in the Saint Patrick's Battalion during the Mexican–American War. Speaking about his ancestry, Álvarez once said, "There might have been an Irish grandfather somewhere back in my past.". Álvarez started boxing when he was around 13 years old, after watching his older brother Rigoberto debut as a professional boxer. In 2004, he won the silver medal at the Junior Mexican National Championships, held in Sinaloa. He became the 2005 Junior Mexican National Boxing Champion in Tuxtla Gutiérrez, Chiapas, at the age of 15..  Álvarez turned professional at 15, shortly after his championship at the Junior Nationals, because his trainers at the time, father-and-son team Chepo and Eddy Reynoso, were unable to find suitable junior opponents for him. In his first 19 months as a professional, he knocked out eleven of his 13 documented opponents, all of whom were significantly older. However, the elder Reynoso stated in 2013 that Álvarez had fought ten more times in that span, winning all ten by knockout , WBC, Ring and lineal middleweight titles whilst obtaining Jacobs' IBF middleweight title. On 13 September 2019, Álvarez announced via social media that he would move up two weight classes to challenge WBO light heavyweight titleholder Sergey Kovalev on 2 November 2019, at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas. Álvarez won the bout by eleventh round KO to become a four-weight world champion.. Álvarez was engaged to Marisol González, who is Miss Mexico Universe 2003 and a sports reporter for Televisa Deportes. He has two daughters and one son, all from different relationships. He is also a boxing promoter in Mexico. His company, Canelo Promotions, was established in 2010 and his business partners are his trainers, father-and-son team Chepo and Eddy Reynoso. As of 2013, Canelo Promotions represented 40 boxers throughout Mexico.. Major world titles: 