Lewis Carl Davidson Hamilton . The following season, he won his first title in dramatic fashion; on the last corner of the last lap in the last race of the season, becoming the then-youngest Formula One World Champion in history. After four more years with McLaren without finishing higher than fourth in the drivers' standings, Hamilton signed with Mercedes in , reuniting with his childhood karting teammate, Nico Rosberg. In his first season, he finished 4th once again, the third time in five years. Changes to ahead of the 2014 season, which mandated the use of , contributed to the start of a highly successful era for Hamilton and Mercedes, during which he has won a further five World Championship titles. Hamilton won consecutive titles in and during an intense and sometimes volatile rivalry with teammate Nico Rosberg, to match his hero Ayrton Senna's three World Championships. Following Rosberg's retirement, Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel became Hamilton's closest rival as the pair engaged in two intense championship battles, but Hamilton prevailed to claim consecutive titles for the second time in his career in and . A third World Drivers' Championship followed in to complete a hat-trick of consecutive titles, bringing his tally to six overall, second only to seven-time World Drivers' Champion Michael Schumacher.. Hamilton was born on 7 January 1985 in Stevenage, Hertfordshire, England. Hamilton's mother, Carmen , a private sixth-form college in Cambridge..  Hamilton began karting in 1993, when he was eight, at the Rye House Kart Circuit and quickly began winning races and cadet class championships. Two years later, he approached McLaren Formula One team boss Ron Dennis for an autograph, and told him, "Hi. I'm Lewis Hamilton. I won the British Championship and one day I want to be racing your cars." Dennis wrote in his autograph book, "Phone me in nine years, we'll sort something out then." Hamilton drove for Martin Hines's Zip Young Guns Karting Team. By the age of 12, his driving skill was high enough that Ladbrokes took a bet, at 40/1 odds, that Hamilton would win a Formula One Grand Prix before the age of 23; another predicted, at 150/1 odds, that he would win the World Drivers' Championship before he was 25. He progressed through to Junior Yamaha in 1997, and in 1998, Dennis called Hamilton after he won an additional Super One series and his second British championship. Dennis delivered on his promise and signed Hamilton to the McLaren driver development programme. The contract included an option of a future Formula One seat, which would make Hamilton the youngest driver to secure a contract which later resulted in a Formula One drive. Hamilton continued his progress in the Intercontinental A . Hamilton began his car racing career in the 2001 British Formula Renault Winter Series. Despite crashing on his third lap in the car in testing, he finished fifth overall in the winter series. This led to a full 2002 Formula Renault UK campaign with Manor Motorsport in which he finished third overall with three wins and three pole positions. He remained with Manor for another year and won the championship with ten wins and 419 points to the two wins and 377 points of his nearest rival, Alex Lloyd. Having clinched the championship, Hamilton missed the last two races of the season to make his debut in the season finale of the British Formula 3 Championship. In his first race he was forced out with a puncture, and in the second he crashed out and was taken to hospital after a collision with teammate Tor Graves. Asked in 2002 about the prospect of becoming one of the youngest ever Formula One drivers, Hamilton replied that his goal was "not to be the youngest in Formula One" but rather "to be experienced and then show what I can do in Formula One". Later in 2004, Williams would announce that they had come close to signing Hamilton but did not because BMW, their engine supplier at the time, would not fund him. He eventually re-signed with McLaren, and made his debut with Manor in the 2004 Formula 3 Euro Series. They won one race and Hamilton ended the year fifth in the championship. He also won the Bahrain F3 Superprix and raced one of the Macau F3 Grands Prix. Hamilton first tested for McLaren in late 2004 at Silverstone. Hamilton moved to the reigning Euro Series champions ASM for the 2005 season and dominated the championship, winning 15 of the 20 rounds. This would have been 16 but for being disqualified from one win at Spa-Francorchamps on a technical infringement that caught out several other drivers. He also won the Marlboro Masters of Formula 3 at Zandvoort. After the season British magazine Autosport featured him in their "Top 50 Drivers of 2005" issue, ranking Hamilton 24th. Due to his success in Formula Three, he moved to ASM's sister GP2 team ART Grand Prix for 2006. Like their sister team in F3, ART were the leaders of the field and reigning champions having taken the 2005 GP2 crown with Nico Rosberg. Hamilton won the GP2 championship at his first attempt, beating Nelson Piquet, Jr. and Timo Glock. His performances included a dominant win at the Nürburgring, despite a penalty for speeding in the pit lane. At his home race at Silverstone, supporting the , Hamilton overtook two rivals at Becketts, a series of high-speed bends where overtaking is rare. In Istanbul he recovered from a spin that left him in eighteenth place to take second. Hamilton won the title in unusual circumstances, inheriting the final point he needed after Giorgio Pantano was stripped of fastest lap in the Monza feature race. In the sprint race, though he finished second with Piquet sixth, he was 12 points clear of his rival. His success in the GP2 championship coincided with a vacancy at McLaren following the departure of Juan Pablo Montoya to NASCAR and Kimi Räikkönen to Ferrari. After months of speculation on whether Hamilton, Pedro de la Rosa or Gary Paffett would be paired with defending champion Fernando Alonso for , Hamilton was confirmed as the team's second driver. He was told of McLaren's decision at the end of September, but the news was not made public for almost two months, for fear that it would be overshadowed by Michael Schumacher's retirement announcement.. Hamilton's first season in Formula One saw him partner two-time and defending World Champion Fernando Alonso. After finishing on the podium in his debut, Hamilton went on to set several records as he finished runner-up in the World Drivers' Championship to Kimi Räikkönen by one point, including those for the . During the season, Hamilton signed a two-year contract with Mercedes, reported to be worth up to £40&nbsp;million per year, making him the best-paid Formula One driver in history. Having signed a contract with Mercedes that lasts until 2020, it was confirmed Hamilton would defend his title in . Hamilton clinched his sixth World Drivers' Championship at the 2019 United States Grand Prix, and with one round remaining, has recorded 10 wins, 16 podiums and 4 pole positions in the season thus far..  Hamilton is regarded as one of the most complete drivers on the grid. The all-time record holder for most pole positions, Hamilton is considered one of the fastest qualifiers in the history of the sport, and has received praise for his ability to produce fast laps at crucial moments. Also a tenacious racer, he excels across a wide range of areas. He has been described as having an aggressive driving style, which at times results in a tendency to lock up the front wheels. Hamilton has been praised for his ability to adapt to variances in the car set-up and changing track conditions; throughout his career, he has typically used less fuel than his teammates as a result of his ability to carry momentum through corners despite instability in the car. Hamilton has been praised for his consistency, especially later in his career, finishing 33 consecutive races in point-scoring positions; a run only brought to an end as a result of mechanical issues as opposed to driver error. Ross Brawn wrote that "over the course of driver ever". From a young age, Hamilton's helmet throughout his karting years was predominantly yellow with blue, green and red ribbons. In later years a white ring was added and the ribbons were moved forward to make room for logos and advertisement space. Hamilton continued to run a predominantly yellow design for the early stage of his Formula One career, but in 2014 decided to change to a mostly white approach. In 2017, Hamilton selected his helmet design from fan submissions. The winning design used a white and yellow base colour with red and orange details, and the addition of three stars – one for each of Hamilton's three Formula One championships at that time – on either side. Over the following seasons, Hamilton continued to add more stars to his helmet upon winning further World Championship titles. Hamilton has worn specially designed one-off helmets for several weekends throughout his career. At the 2010 Monaco Grand Prix, Hamilton sported an altered helmet design with the addition of a roulette wheel image on the top. At the 2015 Malaysian Grand Prix, Hamilton brought with him a striking blue-and-green design – in honour of team sponsor, Petronas – but was prevented from using the helmet by the FIA. Hamilton has sported gold coloured helmets twice in his career. After winning his fourth title in 2017, Hamilton entered 2017 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix in a gold helmet with four stars adorning the top of the helmet with the words "World Champion". Hamilton wore a gold helmet at the 2018 Abu Dhabi Grand Prix after sealing his fifth world title, toward which he made reference with five stars on either side of the design. Hamilton has also used one-off helmet designs to pay tribute to influential figures in his career. At the 2011 Brazilian Grand Prix, Hamilton wore a special helmet in tribute to Ayrton Senna which was auctioned after the race in aid of the Ayrton Senna Foundation. At the 2019 Monaco Grand Prix, Hamilton, like fellow driver Sebastian Vettel, wore a special helmet to pay tribute to Niki Lauda, who passed away at the start of the week. The helmet was painted red and white, Lauda's classic colours, and had his name printed on the back. After the race, Hamilton reflected on Lauda's career, saying "Ultimately, as a driver, my goal one day is to hopefully be as respected as he was ... He's definitely someone who led by a great example, left a great example, and was a real hero to so many." Hamilton again wore a special helmet to pay tribute to Ayrton Senna at the 2019 Brazilian Grand Prix..  When Hamilton joined Mercedes in 2013, he was paired alongside old karting teammate and friend Nico Rosberg. Over their four seasons as teammates, a period of Mercedes dominance Formula One, the pair's relationship became strained and, at times, led to volatile confrontations on and off the track. Hamilton and Rosberg were first teammates in 2000, when they were in karting. They raced for Mercedes Benz McLaren in Formula A, where Hamilton became European champion, with Rosberg not far behind. Robert Kubica, who raced with them before Formula One, recalled how they were competitive both on and off the track, saying "they would even have races to eat pizza, always eating two at a time". Sports journalist Paul Weaver contrasts their upbringings: Rosberg, an only child, was born in Germany but brought up in Monaco and was the son of a wealthy former Formula One world champion, Keke Rosberg, whereas Hamilton was born on a council estate in Stevenage, and his father had to work multiple jobs to fund his son's junior racing. Pundit and commentator Will Buxton compared the character and driving styles of the pair, labelling Hamilton as the faster driver with more natural ability while labelling Rosberg, while not as quick, as the more intelligent driver. Their old karting boss, Dino Chiesa, said Hamilton was the faster driver whereas Rosberg, who once said to Chiesa "everything relates to physics and maths", was always more analytical. This led some to believe that Rosberg would achieve greater success in Formula One, the highest level of open-wheel racing, due to the intellectual capacity required to manage brakes, energy harvesting, tyre management and moderate fuel usage. However, Hamilton's tyre management has frequently allowed him to push on for longer, often enabling optimum race strategies, and his fuel usage has regularly been better than almost anyone on the grid. Sky Sport's Mark Hughes, commented "Rosberg has a more scientific methodology, looks to fine-tune more specifically than Hamilton who typically tends just to find a balance he can work with, then adapt his driving around it". In their time together as teammates, Hamilton and Rosberg won 54 of 78 races over four seasons. Hamilton had 32 victories, 55 podium finishes and qualified ahead of Rosberg 42 times. Rosberg had 22 victories, 50 podium finishes and qualified ahead of Hamilton 36 times. During this period, Hamilton won two World Championship titles to Rosberg's one, and scored more points in three out of their four seasons together. Hamilton's debut season saw him partner two-time and defending World Champion, Fernando Alonso. In their time as teammates, tensions arose between the two drivers and McLaren as a result of several incidents. The first tensions surfaced after Hamilton finished second at Monaco in 2007. After post-race comments made by Hamilton which suggested he had been forced into a supporting role, the FIA investigated whether McLaren had broken rules by enforcing team orders. McLaren denied favouring double world champion Alonso, and the FIA subsequently vindicated the team, stating that "McLaren were able to pursue an optimum team strategy because they had a substantial advantage over all other cars ... nothing which could be described as interfering with the race result". Tensions surfaced again at the 2007 Hungarian Grand Prix, where during the final qualifying session Hamilton was delayed in the pits by Alonso and thus unable to set a final lap time before the end of the session. Alonso was relegated to sixth place on the starting grid thus promoting Hamilton, who had qualified second, to first, while McLaren was docked Constructors' Championship points. Hamilton said he thought the penalty was "quite light if anything" and only regretted the loss of points. Hamilton was reported to have sworn at Dennis on the team radio following the incident. British motorsport journal Autosport claimed that this " was able to win with a dominant car, with a good car like 2010 or 2012, or with bad cars like 2009 and 2011. Not all the champions can say that". Alonso would later describe Hamilton as one of the top five greatest drivers of all time. On the cool-down lap after Alonso's final race before retirement in 2018, Hamilton joined Sebastian Vettel in paying tribute to Alonso by driving, each on one side, in a formation to the start-finish straight where all three executed donuts. In their time together as teammates, Hamilton and Alonso won 8 of 17 races in the 2007 Formula One season. Hamilton had 4 victories, 12 podium finishes and qualified ahead of Alonso 10 times. Alonso also had 4 victories, 12 podium finishes but qualified ahead of Hamilton only 7 times. At the end of their season as teammates, the pair were tied on 109 points, with Hamilton placing second and Alonso third in the World Drivers' Championship by virtue of Hamilton having more second-place finishes..  In 2015, Hamilton was ranked as the richest British sportsperson, with an estimated personal fortune of £88&nbsp;million. In 2018, it was reported that Hamilton had a net worth of £159&nbsp;million. Hamilton is currently the best-paid driver in Formula One, and since joining Mercedes in 2013 has been one of the highest-paid drivers on the grid. Ahead of the 2015 Monaco Grand Prix, Hamilton signed a contract to stay with Mercedes until the end of the 2018 season in a deal reportedly worth more than £100&nbsp;million over the three years, making him one of the best-paid drivers in Formula One. In the week leading up to the 2018 German Grand Prix, Hamilton signed a two-year contract with Mercedes, reported to be worth up to £40&nbsp;million per year, making Hamilton the best-paid driver in the history of Formula One. In December 2017, Hamilton courted controversy after sharing a video on Instagram of his nephew wearing a princess dress in which he commented "Why did you ask for a princess dress for Christmas, boys don't wear princess dresses". He was condemned on social media and by LGBT charities for his comments. He subsequently deleted the video before later deleting all content from his social media channels, though he returned to actively using his social media accounts on 17 January 2018. Hamilton apologised for his comments, and later appeared at Disneyland Paris with his nephew, who wore a princess dress for the trip, as well as featuring on the front cover of GQ wearing a rainbow tartan kilt he designed with Tommy Hilfiger, saying "I’ve done something and then realised the effect I’ve had ... I want to make amends. I accept it, realise it and I’m glad that I’m accountable for it". In December 2018, Stevenage-born Hamilton caused controversy at the BBC Sports Personality of the Year Awards where he said on live television, "It really was a dream for us all as a family to do something different. For us to get out of the slums" before immediately correcting himself, saying, "Well, not the slums, but to get out of somewhere and do something. We all set our goals very, very high but we did it as a team." While Hamilton immediately sought to correct his remarks, the leader of Stevenage Borough Council described the comments as "disappointing" and noted that people felt "very offended". Hamilton posted a video on Instagram in which he apologised for his comments, saying "I'm super proud of where I come from and I hope you know that I represent in the best way I can always. was the first black guy ever to race in the sport" but later stated that he had since grown to "appreciate the implications", and changed his approach to embrace his position and promote equality within the sport. Hamilton has since questioned racial politics in Formula One on a number of occasions. In 2011, after being summoned to the stewards in five out of the first six races of the season, Hamilton quipped: "Maybe it's because I'm black, that's what Ali G says". In 2018, Hamilton criticised the lack of diversity in Formula One, describing how nothing had changed in his eleven years in the sport before saying "Kids, people, there are so many jobs in this sport of which anybody, no matter your ethnicity or background, can make it and fit in". In 2019, Toto Wolff, Hamilton's team boss at Mercedes, described how Hamilton was "scarred for life" by racist abuse inflicted during his childhood. Hamilton announced his intention to live in Switzerland in 2007, stating that this was because he wished to get away from the media scrutiny that he experienced living in the UK. He said on the television show Parkinson that taxation was also a reason. He settled in Luins in Vaud canton on Lake Geneva. In 2010, Hamilton joined many Formula One drivers past and present when he moved to Monaco, purchasing a house worth a reported £10&nbsp;million, where he still resides as of 2018. Hamilton also owns a flat in New York, and an estate in Colorado where he has said he would like to live after his retirement. Hamilton was one of several figures whose tax arrangements were singled out for criticism in a report by the social-justice charity Christian Aid in 2008. The same year, Hamilton received public criticism from UK members of parliament for avoiding UK taxes. Following the leak of the confidential Paradise Papers in November 2017, it was reported that Hamilton had avoided paying £3.3&nbsp;million of value added tax on his Challenger 605 private jet worth £16.5&nbsp;million. According to BBC Panorama, the leasing deal set up by his advisers appeared to be artificial and not to comply with an EU and UK ban on VAT refunds for private use. The BBC also said that Hamilton's social media accounts provide evidence that he has used his jet for holidays and other personal trips. The jet was sold in September 2019.. Hamilton also has interests in music, saying "rowing up, I remember seeing the iconic Tommy Hilfiger flag" and Hilfiger commented on Hamilton, saying "Lewis is bold in everything he does ... He's not afraid to take risks. And he has a cool and sophisticated style that really speaks to the new generation of Tommy fans".. In 2017, Hamilton told the BBC that he had become vegan because, " by the magistrate..  ; Mercedes Formula One World Constructors' Championship: , , , , , Formula One World Drivers' Championship: , , , , , DHL Fastest Lap Award: 2014, 2015, 2017 : 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 Hawthorn Memorial Trophy: 2007, 2008, 2012, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 GP2 Series Championship: 2006 Formula 3 Euro Series Championship: 2005 Formula Renault 2.0 UK Championship: 2003 : 2003 : 2006, 2007 : 2007, 2008, 2014, 2015, 2017, 2018 : 2007, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 Bambi Award : 2008 Laureus World Sports Award for Breakthrough of the Year: 2008 Lorenzo Bandini Trophy: 2009 BBC Sports Personality of the Year: 2014 PAP European Sportsperson of the Year: 2014 : 2014, 2015 Best Driver ESPY Award: 2017 Honorary Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering: 2019 ;Orders and awards Member of the Order of the British Empire ;Footnotes: