"Crisis on Infinite Earths" is the upcoming sixth annual Arrowverse crossover event, featuring episodes of the live-action television series Supergirl, Batwoman, The Flash, Arrow, and Legends of Tomorrow on The CW. The Supergirl, Batwoman, and The Flash episodes will air in December 2019, while the Arrow and Legends of Tomorrow episodes will air in January 2020. "Crisis on Infinite Earths", which is inspired by the comic of the same name, continues plot lines established in the previous crossover, "Elseworlds". Additionally, the preceding episodes of Arrow season eight and much of The Flash season six served as a prelude to the crossover. In "Crisis on Infinite Earths", the Monitor gathers Green Arrow, the Flash, Supergirl, Batwoman, the Legends, and heroes from throughout the multiverse to stop the Anti-Monitor from destroying all reality. Allusions to "Crisis on Infinite Earths" began in 2014, with the pilot episode of The Flash. The adaption of the comic storyline began in earnest during the development of "Elseworlds", with the crossover title revealed at the end of "Elseworlds" in December 2018. In mid-2019, multiple castings were revealed, including that actors who previously portrayed DC characters in other media, such as Burt Ward and Kevin Conroy, would appear in the crossover. "Crisis on Infinite Earths" will also see cast members from fellow CW series Black Lightning appear and cross over with the Arrowverse for the first time, along with actors reprising their roles from former The WB/CW series Smallville and Birds of Prey. Filming took place from the end of September 2019 until the beginning of November 2019..  To prepare for the coming crisis, the Monitor recruits Oliver Queen to help him traverse and warn the multiverse, brings J'onn J'onzz's brother Malefic to Earth-38, and retrieves the dead body of Lex Luthor. Barry Allen and Iris West-Allen learn that the crisis date has moved up to December 2019, and that in order to save billions, the Flash must die. Barry travels to Earth-3 to see Jay Garrick and Joan Williams, who have been tracking anti-matter appearing across the multiverse. They send Barry's mind forward in time, causing him to see billions of timelines where the multiverse is destroyed and the one where he dies saving it. Meanwhile, the Monitor sends Oliver to Earth-2 to retrieve dwarf star particles, where he witnesses the destruction of Earth-2 from an anti-matter wave. As he returns to Earth-1, the Monitor diverts him to Hong Kong to retrieve biophysicist, Robert Wong, who has recreated the Alpha-Omega virus; Wong is placed in A.R.G.U.S. custody. Back in Star City, William Clayton, Connor Hawke, and Mia Smoak mysteriously time travel from 2040 to the present. Oliver and John Diggle eventually learn that Lyla Michaels has been working with the Monitor. The Monitor places Oliver and Laurel Lance in a shared time loop, allowing Laurel to properly say goodbye to Quentin Lance and Oliver to accept he cannot change his fate in the crisis. Out of the loop, the duo find themselves on Lian Yu along with Diggle, William, Connor, and Mia for their final mission. The Monitor visits Earth-38 to contact J'onn, after having saved Malefic, who tells him he has passed his test and is ready for the crisis. Back in his realm, he notifies a now revived Lex that he is ready and that his mind is needed for the coming crisis, only for the latter to request something in return regarding his sister Lena. Nash Wells, a doppelgänger of Harrison Wells, gains access to the Monitor's tomb under Central City, transforming him into Pariah.. * Audrey Marie Anderson as Lyla Michaels / Harbinger Erica Durance as Alura Zor-El Kevin Conroy as Bruce Wayne Jon Cryer as Lex Luthor Erica Durance as Lois Lane Johnathon Schaech as Jonah Hex Burt Ward.  In September 2018, three months before the release of "Elseworlds", the 2018–19 Arrowverse crossover, Legends of Tomorrow executive producer Phil Klemmer said "people dark corners" of the character, in a different way than when he voiced an older version of the character in the animated series Batman Beyond. In July 2019 at San Diego Comic-Con, multiple castings for the crossover were announced. They included: Tyler Hoechlin reprising his role as Superman, while Brandon Routh, who portrays Ray Palmer / Atom in the Arrowverse, would reprise his role as Superman from the film Superman Returns , portraying "an older, more world-weary" version, inspired by the Kingdom Come Superman; Tom Cavanagh would portray Pariah in addition to Nash Wells and Eobard Thawne / Reverse Flash; Burt Ward, who portrayed Dick Grayson / Robin in the 1960s Batman television series, would appear in an undisclosed role; Amell portraying multiple versions of Oliver Queen; Jon Cryer reprising his role as Lex Luthor; and LaMonica Garrett also portraying the Anti-Monitor in addition to the Monitor. Shortly after, Elizabeth Tulloch was also confirmed to be reprising her role as Lois Lane. The following month, at the Television Critics Association, Pedowitz announced that cast members from the series Black Lightning would appear, something star Cress Williams previously hinted at, and that Kevin Conroy would appear as an elderly Bruce Wayne, having previously voiced the character in multiple animated media. Conroy "jumped at" the opportunity to portray the character in live action, having not done it previously. He also felt it would be an opportunity to satisfy the "loyal" fanbase of Batman: The Animated Series, who also expressed interested in seeing Conroy portray the character on camera. Guggenheim also revealed the producers discussed with DC and Warner Bros. about the possibility of having Lynda Carter reprise her role as Wonder Woman from the television series, but felt it was unlikely to happen. In September, Johnathon Schaech was confirmed to be reprising his role as Jonah Hex, and shortly after John Wesley Shipp was cast in an undisclosed role. In the middle of the month, it was announced that Tom Welling and Erica Durance would reprise their roles as Clark Kent and Lois Lane, respectively, from Smallville. Durance also returns to reprise her Arrowverse role as Alura Zor-El. Michael Rosenbaum, who portrayed Lex Luthor on Smallville, revealed Warner Bros. and the producers approached him to reprise the role in "Crisis", but he ultimately declined. Alan Ritchson, who played Arthur Curry/Aquaman on Smallville, was also approached to reprise his role in the crossover but he turned it down due to his scheduling conflicts with the series Titans. Later in the month, Osric Chau was cast as Ryan Choi and Ashley Scott was confirmed to be reprising her role as Helena Kyle / Huntress from the series Birds of Prey. At the start of October, Audrey Marie Anderson was announced to be reprising her role as Lyla Michaels, while also taking on the Harbinger persona from the comics; Lyla previously used "Harbinger" as her A.R.G.U.S. codename. The same month, Stephen Lobo was cast as Jim Corrigan. At the end of November, it was reported that Brec Bassinger would appear in the crossover as Courtney Whitmore / Stargirl, ahead of the release of her series on the streaming service DC Universe later in 2020. Production for "Crisis on Infinite Earths" began on September 24, 2019. Filming at the farmhouse for the Kent family farm took place at the end of the month. The farmhouse had previously been featured in the "Elseworlds" crossover and on Smallville. Production for the Legends of Tomorrow episode began on October 4. Williams took a break from filming Black Lightning in Atlanta to spend a week filming his parts of the crossover in Vancouver. Jesse Warn directed the Supergirl episode, Laura Belsey directed the Batwoman episode, David McWhirter served as director of The Flash episode, the Arrow episode of the crossover was directed by Glen Winter, and the Legends of Tomorrow episode by Gregory Smith. Filming had completed by November 8, with some reshoots and minor filming still needing to be completed..  The crossover will begin with Supergirl on December 8, 2019, and will continue with Batwoman on December 9, and The Flash on December 10. "Crisis on Infinite Earths" will conclude with Arrow and Legends of Tomorrow on January 14, 2020. The first teaser for the crossover was released on November 10, 2019. Boost Mobile served as a promotional partner for the event. On November 15, The CW released a series of show-specific teaser shorts. A week later, the poster for the event was released. On November 24, 2019, a full trailer was released.<!--. Kevin Smith will host Crisis Aftermath, an aftershow that will air after the Supergirl episode on December 8 and The Flash episode on December 10. The show will "go in-depth to explore" the crossover.