'Bala' is a 2019 Indian Hindi-language social problem comedy film directed by Amar Kaushik and produced by Dinesh Vijan. Ayushmann Khurrana stars as Bala, a young man living in Kanpur who is suffering from alopecia, and the story is about his lack of confidence and societal pressure that comes with premature balding. Bhumi Pednekar, Yami Gautam, Javed Jaffrey, Saurabh Shukla, and Seema Pahwa feature in supporting roles. Principal photography began in May 2019 at Kanpur and the film was also shot in Mumbai and Lucknow. The soundtrack is composed by Sachin–Jigar. Made on a budget of 25 crore, the film released in preview shows on 7 November 2019 and Indian theatres on the following day. Bala has grossed over 165.62 worldwide to become a major box office success.. The film opens in Kanpur, where 10-year-old students tease a balding teacher. Balmukund "Bala" Shukla, a popular kid, leads the teasing. Bala borrows notes from the studious and dark-complexioned Latika and passes them off as his own to the fair-skinned Shruti to impress her. When Latika calls him out, Bala berates her for being dark-skinned. The narrator describes how society values beauty and fair skin over other accomplishments, especially in marriage. Years later, Bala is a balding man in his late twenties who struggles with his premature baldness. He is a fairness cream salesman by day and nightclub comic by night. One day, Bala angrily lashes out at his bald father: his father’s balding genes have killed the son’s prospects. His father presents him with a wig and explains that baldness is external and need not have anything to do with one's accomplishments. Bala dons the wig and resumes his work with new vigor. He meets a pretty, fair-skinned model, Pari, and courts her. They decide to marry. Some days before the wedding, Bala is stricken by conscience and sends her a text disclosing his baldness. Unbeknownst to him, the text accidentally goes to someone else and Pari does not see it. Bala assumes she has accepted his baldness and they marry. Latika has her share of troubles. Many boys and families come to see her but reject her because of her dark skin. Among these prospective suitors is Rohan, an Australia-settled NRI who is attracted to Latika but the meeting blows over when his mother mentions Latika’s complexion and Latika storms out. Rohan asks to meet her and they reconcile until he mentions he was initially attracted to her due to her Instagram profile. Latika reveals that she is not on Instagram, and it is revealed that Bala had created a fake profile with airbrushed pictures of her at her aunt's behest. Fuming, Latika storms into Bala’s home the day after his wedding and shouts at him. She says she is not ashamed of her skin and warns him not to interfere in her life anymore. Pari hears this, discovers Bala’s baldness, and walks out on him. Bala is dejected. He later receives a court notice: Pari wants the marriage annulled. Bala visits her to talk it over. Pari reveals that she was blessed with good looks but not much else. She knew she was a below-average student and thus could not enter any other profession besides modeling. Her looks are all she has: they are the source of the attention she's received all her life and the source of her livelihood. Latika apologizes to Bala, as her outburst broke his marriage. Bala engages her as his lawyer and the court case begins. Latika cross-examines Pari, who accepts she married Bala because of his wits and charm. She also accepts that Bala did not mislead or defraud her but points out that Bala was not forthcoming about his baldness. If he is not comfortable with himself, then he cannot sustain anyone else. Pari’s lawyer moves that Pari has a right to want to annul the marriage regardless. Bala interrupts the proceedings and agrees that Pari does have that right and the judge orders such. When Latika questions him later, Bala explains that the law cannot compel anyone to love another, and a half-hearted marriage will not work anyway. Later, during one of his fair-cream sales events, Bala realizes that beauty is merely skin-deep. He publicly sheds his wig to show that self-love is important irrespective of appearance. At a school reunion, he apologizes to his old balding teacher. He also realizes that Latika is probably the perfect partner for him and runs to propose to her but sees that Rohan and his family have come to finalize the wedding. He proposes anyway but Latika turns him down gently; she actually likes Rohan. Bala is disappointed, but is able to resume his friendship with Latika. The film ends with Bala, now at peace with his baldness, doing a new comedy routine about skin-deep beauty and the meaning of life.. * Ayushmann Khurrana as Balmukund "Bala" Shukla Bhumi Pednekar as Latika Trivedi Yami Gautam as Pari Mishra Javed Jaffrey as Bachchan Dubey Saurabh Shukla as Hari Shukla Seema Pahwa as Mausi Varun Shashi Rao as Rohan Deepika Chikhalia as Susheela Abhishek Banerjee as Ajju Dheerendra Kumar Gautam as Vihan Sonam Bajwa in a special appearance in the song "Naah Goriye" Harrdy Sandhu in a special appearance in the song "Naah Goriye" Aparshakti Khurana in a cameo appearance Sachin Choudhary as Young Bala Sumit Arora as bala's boss.  The cast of the film was announced by the producer Dinesh Vijan. The film to be directed by Amar Kaushik, is starring Ayushmann Khurrana in titular role, Yami Gautam as supermodel based in Lucknow and Bhumi Pednekar as a dusky small town educated woman. The film marks the third collaboration between Ayushmann Khurrana and Bhumi Pednekar after Dum Laga Ke Haisha . The principal photography began on 6 May 2019, and film was shot in Mumbai, Lucknow and Kanpur. Filming concluded on July 7, 2019, with a special party for the wrap up.. The music and background score is composed by Sachin–Jigar, with guest composers Jaani and B Praak composing the song "Naah Goriye" which is a recreated version of the song "Naah" by the same artists released in 2017 while lyrics have been written by Mellow D, Jaani, Badshah, Priya Saraiya, Jigar Saraiya and Bhargav Purohit. The song "Don't Be Shy Again" is from an original track of the same title from the album 'Rouge' by Rouge, composed by Dr Zeus and written by Lola Olafis.. After the trailer of the film was released, it was accused of copyright violation from the makers of Ujda Chaman, which also has a storyline similar to Bala. Ujda Chaman is an official remake of Kannada film Ondu Motteya Kathe. On release of its first song "Don't Be Shy", music composer-singer Dr Zeus claimed that the makers have used his track without giving due credit and acquiring any sort of rights..  Bala received generally positive reviews from critics with praise for the performances and the film's narrative. Bollywood Hungama gave 3.5 out of 5 and said, "Bala not only entertains thoroughly but also delivers a very important message that will surely be lapped up by the audiences." Ronak Kotecha of The Times of India rated the movie 4 stars on five and wrote, "'Bala' remains a light-hearted comedy with situations that are relatable. Just like the film’s message, 'Bala' is beautiful even with its flaws, and never fails to entertain." Monika Rawal Kukreja of Hindustan Times reviewed, "Bala is a well-made film that stays true to its genre for most of the time. It makes right jokes at the time and leaves you in stitches more often that you’d expect." Kennith Rosario of The Hindu said, "A hollow film combed over with humour." India Today rated the movie 4 on 5 and said, "King Midas Ayushmann Khurrana delivers another blockbuster." News18 rated the movie 3 on 5 and said,"Bala could have been a crackerjack of a film but allows the novelty of its premise to wear out too easily. Bala, Kanpur’s “edible young man” , certainly gets your attention, but does not manage to sweep you off your feet." Balas opening day domestic collection was 10.15 crore. On the second day, the film collected 15.73 crore. On the third day, the film collected 18.07 crore, taking total opening weekend collection to 43.95 crore. , with a gross of 135.23 crore in India and 32.43 crore overseas, the film has a worldwide gross collection of 167.66 crore.