Olajide Olayinka Williams "JJ" Olatunji , a documentary film following the build-up to his first amateur boxing fight. KSI has been involved in three high-profile boxing bouts; the first two were amateur white-collar events, and the third was a professional bout. The first, against British YouTuber Joe Weller, was won by KSI via . With a live online audience of over 1.6 million, the fight was described as the largest white-collar boxing event in history. The second fight, versus American YouTuber Logan Paul, ended in a majority draw and was labelled 'the largest event in YouTube history'. The subsequent rematch was KSI's professional boxing debut, which he won via split decision.. Born in London, England on 19 June 1993, KSI was raised in Watford, Hertfordshire with his parents Jide Olatunji and Yinka Olatunji, who are of Nigerian descent. KSI was educated at Berkhamsted School, a fee-paying independent school, where he met future Sidemen member Simon Minter. KSI registered his first account on YouTube under the name 'JideJunior' in 2008 while in his early teens, before opening his current channel in 2009. He dropped out of sixth-form to pursue his YouTube career once he was earning steady monthly revenue from his uploads. In an interview in 2014, KSI recounted: "I asked the teacher, ‘should I leave?’ He asked, ‘how much are you making from YouTube?’ and I said around £1,500 a month. He told me he was getting less than that." His parents disapproved, but have since become supportive, featuring in a number of his videos..  KSI registered his current YouTube account on 24 July 2009 under the name KSIOlajideBT, where, inspired by other YouTubers, he uploaded gaming–commentary videos of the FIFA video game series from his bedroom at his parents' house in Watford. After sharing his videos with friends and on online forums, KSI grew a small following of around 20,000 after two years. Introducing more vlog-style content and playing a variety of games such as Grand Theft Auto V over the next year saw his following grow more rapidly as he reached 1 million subscribers just three years after founding his channel. By the end of 2013, KSI's subscriber count surpassed 3 million, making him the then twenty-fifth-most subscribed user on YouTube. The same year, KSI visited Las Vegas, where he discussed YouTube's launching of a paid-channel subscription project. KSI's initial rise to fame was not without controversy. He was widely criticised for his so-called 'rape-face', a recurring joke on his channel during 2012 and 2013, and was the centre of a controversy following his actions at a Eurogamer event in 2012. Accused of verbally and sexually harassing staff and attendees at the event, Microsoft cut ties with KSI and he was banned from all future Eurogamer events. KSI subsequently apologised "for any offence the video of 15 months ago may have caused in the short time it was on his YouTube channel, references to it since and subsequently used by other people" and stated his desire to move on from the incident and be "be judged on the great content and value he gives to brands and partners, without controversy." In October 2013, KSI signed with Maker Studios' sub-network, Polaris. Later that month, on 19 October 2013, KSI and four other British YouTubers formed the entertainment collective Ultimate Sidemen, later shortened to just Sidemen. Since 2014, the group has consisted of seven British YouTubers: Vikram Barn, Josh Bradley, Tobi Brown, Harry Lewis, Simon Minter, Ethan Payne, and KSI. The group produces online videos, most often consisting of challenges, sketches and video-game commentary, as well as selling exclusive Sidemen merchandise. Having written and produced comedy–rap songs for his YouTube channel in 2011, KSI took his first major step into expanding his content beyond just YouTube videos in 2015 by starting . He releasing his debut song, "Lamborghini", written about his recently purchased Lamborghini Aventador, featuring P Money on 23 March 2015, reaching number 30 in the UK singles chart. Shortly after, KSI's debut EP, Keep Up, peaked at number 1 on the UK R&B Albums Chart and he has since released a number of songs and toured with his music. KSI further exapanded his content later that year, releasing a biography titled KSI: I Am a Bellend. The book was released on 24 September 2015 in the UK and five days later in the United States, and KSI toured to support the book from its release until 4 October 2015. In 2016, KSI and the Sidemen published Sidemen: The Book, which sold 26,436 copies within three days and topped the hardback nonfiction charts. On 4 August 2017, KSI tweeted that he would be leaving the Sidemen, citing conflicts with fellow member, Ethan Payne. Shortly thereafter, he released a number of diss track videos criticising members of his then-former group, to which most of the members responded back with their own. Later that month, KSI released a video in which he claimed that he was being deported from the United States for receiving an incorrect visa. In November 2017, KSI released a video discussing whether his supposed fallout with the Sidemen was real or fake, saying, "he drama wasn't entirely real but wasn't entirely fake either." British YouTuber, Joe Weller, criticised KSI and the Sidemen for artificially stirring friction between him and the Sidemen for views. Following resulting public disagreements on Twitter, the pair announced that they would be facing each other in a white-collar amateur boxing match on 3 February 2018 at Copper Box Arena in London. During the announcement, the two YouTubers verbally and physically confronted each other, with KSI appearing to mock Weller's struggles with depression; KSI later apologised for his comments. The fight, titled KSI vs. Joe Weller, was held on 3 February 2018 and was won by KSI 1 minute and 30 seconds into the third round by way of technical knockout; KSI was awarded the YouTube Boxing Championship Belt. On YouTube, the fight drew 1.6million live viewers, 21million views within a day, and over 25million over the next several days, making it the biggest white-collar boxing fight in history. KSI expressed his respect for Weller after the fight for being "way harder, way tougher than I thought," and praised him for his commitment to raising awareness for mental health, before calling out American YouTuber Logan Paul, his brother Jake Paul, and retired footballer Rio Ferdinand. On 24 February 2018, it was announced that KSI would be fighting Logan Paul in a white-collar amateur boxing match, with his brother, Deji, fighting Logan Paul's younger brother Jake Paul on the undercard. The fight ended as a majority draw, with two judges scoring the fight even at 57–57 and a third judge scoring 58–57 in favor of KSI. The fight has been labelled "the largest event in YouTube history" and "the largest ever amateur boxing fight". The fight sold-out 21,000 tickets for Manchester Arena, generating an estimated live gate revenue of over £2.7million , Andy Foster, defended the accusation that the YouTubers weren't fit to fight professionally, saying in an interview that "If they weren’t YouTube stars, this fight is still approvable in every commission in this country as debut athletes". Kevin Draper of The New York Times noted KSI, Paul and the organisers' intention to bring a new audience to a 'stagnant' sport and highlights the fact both YouTubers sought coaching from world-champion boxers and trainers. Professional boxers Anthony Joshua, Deontay Wilder, Tyson Fury, Dillian Whyte and Andy Ruiz Jr. also expressed support for the event and the fact it was being held as a professional bout, highlighting the benefit it could bring to boxing in terms of expanding the sport's audience. After six three minute rounds, KSI was the winner via split decision, with two judges scoring the fight 57–54 and 56–55 for KSI, and one judging scoring it 56–55 in favour of Paul. Paul and KSI shook hands and shared an embrace after the fight, with both paying respect to one another, though Paul stated his intention to contest the commission for his point deduction for his illegal punches, stating that he does not dispute what happened but thought he deserved only a warning. When asked about a possible rematch, Paul expressed his support for the idea, but KSI rejected any prospect of a third fight against Paul, saying "It's done ... I'm on to the next thing"..  KSI released his debut single as a solo artist on 23 March 2015 titled "Lamborghini", which features rapper P Money. The song was released under Sway's record label Dcypha Productions. On 29 October 2015, KSI announced his debut EP titled Keep Up. The EP was released on 8 January 2016 by Island Records and debuted at number 13 on the UK Albums Chart and at number one on the UK R&B Albums Chart. On 29 April 2016, KSI released a song titled "Goes Off",featuring Mista Silva. The song was released as the lead single to KSI's second EP, Jump Around. KSI later released the second single from the EP titled "Friends with Benefits" featuring Dutch musical group MNDM on 29 July. The EP's title track featuring Waka Flocka Flame was released as the third single on 16 September. Jump Around was later released on 28 October 2016 through Island Records. After taking a four-month hiatus from YouTube, KSI released a song titled, "Creature" on 23 June 2017. The song was released as a single for his third EP titled, Space, which was released independently on 30 June. KSI later released his fourth EP titled, Disstracktions, three months later on 29 September 2017. Disstracktions later went on to chart on the UK Albums Chart and UK R&B Albums Chart at number 31 and one respectively. On 31 January 2018, KSI released a single titled "Uncontrollable" featuring British grime rapper Big Zuu. The song was played during KSI's ring walk for his boxing match against YouTuber Joe Weller on 3 February. The song charted at number 89 on the UK Singles Chart. KSI released his next single on 17 August 2018 titled "On Point". The song was played during KSI's ring walk for his boxing match against American YouTuber Logan Paul on 25 August 2018. KSI announced via a YouTube video on 28 February 2019 that he would be releasing a collaboration album with British YouTube rapper Randolph titled New Age, as well as going on a tour across the UK and some parts of Europe to promote the album. New Age was released independently on 12 April 2019 and featured guest appearances from JME, Talia Mar and Quadeca. The album debuted at number 17 on the UK Albums Chart and at number one on the UK R&B Albums chart. On 4 November 2019, it was announced that KSI had signed a record deal with RBC Records under BMG Rights Management in order to "take his music to the next level". On 7 November, KSI released his first single under the new record label titled "Down Like That". The song features British artist S-X and American rappers Rick Ross and Lil Baby. The song was performed live by the featured artists during KSI's ring walk for his boxing rematch against American YouTuber Logan Paul on 9 November. The single peaked at number 18 on the UK Singles Chart, making it KSI's highest-charting single.. KSI's income for 2014 was reported to be $1.12 million. In 2015, KSI's earnings were estimated by Forbes as over $4.5 million, ranking him as the fifth-highest paid YouTuber in the world. Within two years, his wealth had more than doubled as his net worth reached $11 Million by 2017. In 2018, Esquire magazine reported that, according to Social Blade, KSI can make up to £250,000 in advertising revenue from just one video, and that a product endorsement on his social media can fetch in the region of £75,000. Business Insider reported that KSI's first fight against Logan Paul that year generated around $11 million for the Young Minds Trust. In 2015, KSI donated $10,000 to an online charity stream done by YouTuber Castro1021, and participated in the Race Against Slime event, raising money for SpecialEffect, a foundation developing technology to aid people with physical disabilities to play video games. In 2019, KSI uploaded a video titled "Ending it all", from which all ad-revenue would be donated to various suicide-prevention charities.. KSI's younger brother, Deji Olatunji, is also a YouTuber. The brothers ranked number one and two respectively as "UK’s Most Influential YouTube Creators" by Tubular Labs in 2015. In late November 2018, Deji revealed KSI's personal bank records in a video; KSI later condemned Deji's actions and expressed his disappointment towards his parents for allowing the publication of his financial records. In January 2019, Deji apologised to his brother for his "impulsive" and "rash" behaviour and made the video private. In May 2019, Deji made the video in which he exposed KSI's bank records public again, prompting KSI to state on Twitter that he is "done" with his brother. However, in November 2019, KSI revealed that their feud was settled, stating that "brothers fight and there’s always gonna be a situation where, because we’re in the public eye, everything gets blown out of proportion.". Collaborative albums New Age 