Joseph Jason Namakaeha Momoa . Road to Paloma was Momoa's first film as director, writer, and producer. He also starred in the lead role in the film, released on July 11, 2014.. An only child, Momoa was born in 1979 in Nānākuli, Honolulu, Hawaii to Coni , a photographer, and Joseph Momoa, a painter. He was raised in Norwalk, Iowa, by his mother. His father is of Native Hawaiian ancestry and his mother is of German, Irish, and Native American descent. After high school, Momoa attended college and initially majored in marine biology before switching to wildlife biology.. In 1998, Momoa was discovered by designer Eric Chandler and Takeo Kobayashi, who encouraged his modeling career. At 19 years old, he also worked part-time in a surf shop before being cast in the action drama series Baywatch Hawaii, where he appeared as Jason Ioane . In June 2014, Momoa was reported to have been cast in the role of Aquaman. He first played the role in a cameo in the superhero film Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, marking Aquaman's live action theatrical debut. Momoa played the character in a leading role in the 2017 ensemble film Justice League. He then starred in the Aquaman solo film, which released in late 2018. He also reprised this role in The LEGO Movie 2: The Second Part. In 2014, Momoa portrayed Connor in the Canadian horror action film Wolves, and starred in the sci-fi horror movie Debug; it was written and directed by Momoa's former Stargate Atlantis co-star, British-born Canadian actor David Hewlett. In February 2015, it was announced that he would portray a cannibal in the drama thriller film The Bad Batch. In 2015, Momoa was cast in the Canadian action film Braven, which was released on February 2, 2018. In early 2017, he signed onto the official Just Cause movie series. In July 2018, Momoa was cast for Apple's upcoming future-based drama series See. In February 2019, Momoa was cast as Duncan Idaho in the upcoming Denis Villeneuve film Dune.. Momoa began a relationship with actress Lisa Bonet in 2005. Although it was previously believed that Momoa and Bonet married on November 15, 2007, the couple did not legally marry until October 2017. Through his marriage to Bonet, Momoa is the stepfather to Zoë Kravitz. On July 23 2007, Bonet gave birth to their first child, a daughter, Lola Iolani. Their second child, a son, Nakoa-Wolf Manakauapo Namakaeha, was born on December 15, 2008. Momoa's mother announced the birth. Momoa learned martial arts for his role as Ronon in Stargate Atlantis and for Conan. In 2017, Momoa started practicing Brazilian jiu-jitsu. Momoa has also practiced proper screaming technique with Oli Peters, the vocalist of technical death metal band Archspire for a war cry scene in See. He has multiple tattoos. The most notable tattoo is a halfsleeve on his left forearm, which is a tribute to his family god, or “aumakua”. He is a fan of heavy metal music and has noted that he "build characters off of metal songs"; he has invited members of Archspire to appear in cameos in the first episode of See. On November 15, 2008, Momoa was slashed in the face with a broken beer glass by a man during an altercation at the Birds Cafe, a tavern in Hollywood, California. He received approximately 140&nbsp;stitches during reconstructive surgery and the scar is apparent in his later work. The assailant was sentenced to five years in prison for the attack.