'The Crown' is a historical drama web television series about the reign of Queen Elizabeth II, created and principally written by Peter Morgan, and produced by Left Bank Pictures and Sony Pictures Television for Netflix. It grew out of Morgan's film The Queen . The first season covers the period from Queen Elizabeth's marriage to Philip, Duke of Edinburgh in 1947 to the disintegration of her sister Princess Margaret's engagement to Group Captain Peter Townsend in 1955. The second season covers the period from the Suez Crisis in 1956 to the retirement of Prime Minister Harold Macmillan in 1963 and the birth of Prince Edward in 1964. The third season spans the period between 1964 and 1977, including Harold Wilson's two periods as prime minister, while the fourth will include Margaret Thatcher's premiership and introduce Lady Diana Spencer. The series is intended to last 60 episodes over six seasons, with 10 one-hour episodes per season covering Elizabeth's life from her younger years to her reign, and with new actors being cast every two seasons. Claire Foy portrays the Queen in the first two seasons, alongside Matt Smith as Prince Philip and Vanessa Kirby as Princess Margaret. For the third and fourth seasons, Olivia Colman takes over as the Queen, Tobias Menzies as Prince Philip, and Helena Bonham Carter as Princess Margaret. Filming for the series takes place at Elstree Studios in Borehamwood, Hertfordshire, with location shooting throughout the United Kingdom and internationally. The first season was released on Netflix on November 4, 2016, the second on December 8, 2017, and the third on November 17, 2019. The series has been renewed for a fourth season. The Crown was praised for its acting, directing, writing, cinematography, production values, and relatively accurate historical account of Queen Elizabeth's reign. It received accolades at the 23rd Screen Actors Guild Awards, won Best Actress for Foy in the lead role and Best Actor for John Lithgow as Winston Churchill, and received a total of 26 nominations for its first two seasons at the Primetime Emmy Awards, including twice for Outstanding Drama Series.. The Crown traces the life of Queen Elizabeth II from her wedding in 1947 to the present. Claire Foy portrays Elizabeth in seasons 1 and 2, and Olivia Colman in seasons 3 and 4. The first season depicts events up to 1955, with Winston Churchill resigning as prime minister and the Queen's sister Princess Margaret deciding not to marry Peter Townsend. The second season covers the Suez Crisis in 1956 leading to the retirement of Prime Minister Anthony Eden, the retirement of Prime Minister Harold Macmillan in 1963 following the Profumo affair political scandal, and the birth of Prince Edward in 1964. The third season covers 1964 to 1977, beginning with Harold Wilson's election as prime minister and ending with the Silver Jubilee of Elizabeth II, also covering Edward Heath's time as prime minister. The third season also introduces Camilla Shand. The fourth season will be set during Margaret Thatcher's premiership and see the prominence of Lady Diana Spencer. Foy is set for a cameo in a flashback scene in the fourth season.. * Claire Foy Harriet Walter as Clementine Churchill Nicholas Rowe as Jock Colville Simon Chandler as Clement Attlee Kate Phillips as Venetia Scott Ronald Pickup as the Archbishop of Canterbury Nigel Cooke as Harry Crookshank Patrick Drury as the Lord Chamberlain John Woodvine as the Archbishop of York Jo Stone-Fewings as Collins Tony Guilfoyle as the Bishop of Durham Paul Thornley as Bill Mattheson Chloe Pirrie as Eileen Parker Nicholas Burns as Anthony Nutting Lucy Russell as Lady Mountbatten Richard Elfyn as Selwyn Lloyd Adrian Lukis as Vice-Admiral Sir Conolly Abel Smith Guy Williams as Prince Andrew of Greece and Denmark Simon Paisley Day as Meryn Lewis Sylvestra Le Touzel as Dorothy Macmillan Catherine Bailey as Elizabeth Cavendish Paul Clayton as Bob Boothby Yolanda Kettle as Camilla Fry Ed Cooper Clarke as Jeremy Fry Ryan Sampson as Dudley Moore Tim Steed as John Profumo Lyla Barrett-Rye as school-aged Princess Anne Robert Irons as Freddie Bishop Patrick Warner as Peter Cook Oliver Maltman as Jim Orr David Annen as Alec Douglas-Home Richard Lintern as Stephen Ward Penny Downie as Alice, Duchess of Gloucester Mark Dexter as Tony Benn, Labour politician Lorraine Ashbourne as Barbara Castle, Labour politician Aden Gillett as Richard Crossman Sinéad Matthews as Marcia Williams, Labour politician who served as Harold Wilson's private secretary David Charles as George Thomas Stuart McQuarrie as George Thomson, Baron Thomson of Monifieth Connie M'Gadzah as Sydney Johnson.  Peter Morgan, who wrote the 2006 film The Queen and the 2013 stage play The Audience, is the main scriptwriter for The Crown. The directors of the television series who were also involved in the stage production are Stephen Daldry, Philip Martin, Julian Jarrold, and Benjamin Caron. The first 10-part season was the most expensive drama produced by Netflix and Left Bank Pictures to date, costing at least £100&nbsp;million. A second season was commissioned, with the series intended to span 60 episodes over six seasons. By October 2017, "early production" had begun on an anticipated third and fourth season, and by the following January, Netflix confirmed the series had been renewed for a third and fourth season. By November 2014, Claire Foy had entered negotiations to portray Queen Elizabeth II in the series. By May 2015, Vanessa Kirby was in negotiations to portray Princess Margaret. In June 2015, John Lithgow was cast as Winston Churchill, and Matt Smith was cast as Prince Philip; Foy was confirmed as Queen Elizabeth II. Also starring in the first season were Victoria Hamilton, Jared Harris, and Eileen Atkins. The Left Bank producers noted that Smith was paid more than Foy in the first two seasons, partially because of his Doctor Who fame. This information brought up discussion on the gender pay gap, including the creation of a petition asking Smith to donate the difference between his and Foy's salary to the Time's Up Legal Defense Fund. Left Bank later issued an apology to Foy and Smith for putting them "at the center of a media storm... through no fault of their own." Left Bank also clarified that they "are responsible for budgets and salaries; the actors are not aware of who gets what, and cannot be held personally responsible for the pay of their colleagues." They added that they support "the drive for gender equality in film and TV and made amends for it because that's what needed to happen." The Hollywood Reporter noted it was unclear what Smith was referring to as resolved, since Netflix and Left Bank had not commented on the matter further. Foy later described reports that she had received backpay to bring her salary up to parity as "not quite correct". The producers recast the continuing roles with older actors every two seasons, as the timeline moves forward and the characters age. In October 2017, Olivia Colman was cast as Queen Elizabeth II for the third and fourth seasons. By January 2018, Helena Bonham Carter and Paul Bettany were in negotiations to portray Princess Margaret and Prince Philip, respectively, for these seasons. However, by the end of the month Bettany was forced to drop out due to the time commitment required. By the end of March 2018, Tobias Menzies was cast as Prince Philip for the third and fourth seasons. In early May 2018, Bonham Carter was confirmed to have been cast, alongside Jason Watkins as Prime Minister Harold Wilson. The next month, Ben Daniels was cast as Antony Armstrong-Jones for the third season, along with Erin Doherty joining the series as Princess Anne. A month later, Josh O'Connor and Marion Bailey were cast as Prince Charles and the Queen Mother, respectively, for the third and fourth seasons. In October 2018, Emerald Fennell was cast as Camilla Shand. In December 2018, Charles Dance was cast as Louis Mountbatten. In April 2019, Emma Corrin was cast as Lady Diana Spencer for the fourth season. Gillian Anderson, who had been rumoured since January 2019 to be in talks to portray Margaret Thatcher in the fourth season, was officially confirmed for the role in September 2019. An estimated 25% of the first season was filmed at Elstree Studios in Borehamwood, Hertfordshire, with the remainder filmed on location, altogether taking 152 days. Sets for private quarters, the interior of a private jet, the cabinet room, and the exterior of 10 Downing Street, were built at Elstree Studios, while Lancaster House, Wrotham Park and Wilton House were used to double as Buckingham Palace. Ely Cathedral and Winchester Cathedral stood in for Westminster Abbey, while locations in South Africa doubled as Kenya. Additional locations in the UK included Waddesdon Manor, Eltham Palace, the Royal Naval College, Goldsmiths' Hall, Shoreham Airport, New Slains Castle, Balmoral Castle, Cruden Bay, Lyceum Theatre, Loseley Park, Hatfield House, The Historic Dockyard Chatham, Southwark Cathedral, Ardverikie House, Englefield House, and the Glenfeshie Estate. Filming on the second season began in early October 2016. Each episode of the first two seasons would shoot for about 22 days, with each costing about to produce. The third season began filming in July 2018, and concluded in February 2019. The fourth season began filming in August 2019. The re-enactment of the removal of the King's cancerous lung, originally performed by Sir Clement Price Thomas, was researched and planned by Pankaj Chandak, specialist in transplant surgery at Guy's Hospital, London. Chandak and his surgical team then became part of the actual scene filmed for the show. The surgical model of King George VI was donated to the Gordon Museum of Pathology for use as a teaching aid.. The show has been commended for its depiction of events, though it has occasionally faced criticism for excessive dramatisation and for some events that bear no relation to the historical evidence. Peggy Noonan of The Wall Street Journal commented on the historical inaccuracy of the series, and argued for "more truth in art and entertainment". The show has been interpreted as perpetuating the idea that the Queen and Prime Minister Winston Churchill forced Princess Margaret to give up her plan to marry Group Captain Peter Townsend. In the series, the Queen tells her sister that, if she marries Townsend, she would no longer be a member of the family because of the Royal Marriages Act 1772. However, there is clear evidence that, in reality, efforts had been made to prevent any further delay of the marriage, which would have allowed Princess Margaret to keep her royal title and her civil list allowance, stay in the country, and continue with her public duties. Historian Hugo Vickers wrote that Queen Elizabeth did condemn the Duke of Windsor after she was told about the Marburg Files, but claimed that the series contains a false implication that the Duke was banished from the royal family upon publication. In reality he remained in contact with the family, and his public appearances continued. Prince Charles did visit the Duke in Paris in 1972, however the depiction of letters concerning his affections for Camilla Shand were ridiculed by critics, citing that Charles and Camilla had met but were not intimately close during the Duke’s lifetime. Queen Elizabeth did visit the Duke ten days before his death, but this had been long-planned and not requested at short notice. The depiction of the relationship with Jackie Kennedy has drawn criticism. Reports indicate that she had described Prince Philip as "nice but nervous" and overall there was no bond between them. The implication that Queen Elizabeth visited Ghana to compete with Jackie Kennedy's popularity was ridiculed by critics. Reviews of the episode noted that it ignored more significant events of the visit, such as Kennedy's sister Lee and her husband Prince Stanisław Albrecht Radziwiłł's initial exclusion from the banquet invitation list due to both being divorcees. Both were eventually invited, though Princess Margaret and Princess Marina did not attend, despite the Kennedys apparently wanting to meet them. Gordonstoun School responded to its negative portrayal in series two, claiming that Prince Charles's personal feedback to the school had been overwhelmingly positive. Royal historian Hugo Vickers said that the same episode inaccurately depicted Philip's sister's death in a plane crash as having arisen from his own misbehaviour at Gordonstoun: "It is beyond me how serious film-makers would wish to turn such a dreadful tragedy into a series of invented scenes bearing no relation to the truth." Queen Elizabeth did not visit Winston Churchill following his final stroke. Historians claim that by then Churchill was senile and incapable of holding a conversation. Historians denied that Princess Anne’s relations with Andrew Parker-Bowles overlapped with Charles and Camilla’s introduction. Reviews of the episode noted that it ignored more significant events, citing Anne’s 1973 wedding to Captain Mark Phillips and her attempted kidnapping in 1974. The relationship with Princess Alice has also drawn criticism. Philip’s depiction as being estranged from his mother and objecting to her visiting London was ridiculed by critics, noting he regularly visited her and often transported her personally via plane, whilst stating her depicted interview with journalists never happened. Hugo Vickers also stated that the same episode ignored that Philip encouraged her to move to London permanently..  In September 2019, The Guardian ranked the show 44th on its list of the 100 best TV shows of the 21st century, characterizing it as "filigree telly", and calling "every painstakingly staged scene a plush indulgence" but having "enough grit to make it more than just a luxury". The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported 89% approval for the first season based on 70 reviews, with an average rating of 8.77/10. Its critical consensus reads, "Powerful performances and lavish cinematography make The Crown a top-notch production worthy of its grand subject." On Metacritic, the series holds a score of 81 out of 100, based on 29 critics, indicating "universal acclaim". Rotten Tomatoes reported a 90% approval rating for the second season based on 82 reviews, with an average rating of 8.35/10. The website's critical consensus read "The Crown continues its reign with a self-assured sophomore season that indulges in high drama and sumptuous costumes." On Metacritic, the second season holds a score of 87 out of 100, based on 27 critics, retaining the first season's indication of "universal acclaim". Rotten Tomatoes reported a 89% approval rating for the third season based on 80 reviews, with an average rating of 8.38/10. Its critical consensus reads: "Olivia Colman shines, but as The Crown marches on in reliably luxurious fashion through time it finds space for the characters around her, providing ample opportunity for the appealing ensemble to gleam, too." On Metacritic, the season holds a score of 85 out of 100 based on 27 critics, indicating "universal acclaim".