The 2019 Southeast Asian Games, officially known as the 30th Southeast Asian Games or 2019 SEA Games and commonly known as Philippines 2019, is the 30th edition of the Southeast Asian Games, a biennial regional multi-sport event which is being held in the Philippines from 30 November to 11 December 2019, with games from selected sports started as early as November 24. This edition is marked by the first major decentralization in the history of the Games, with competition venues spread in 23 cities across the country, divided into 4 clusters, all located on the island of Luzon . This will be the Philippines' fourth time to host the games, and its first since 2005. Previously, it had also hosted the 1981 and 1991 editions of the games. This edition is most notable for being the first edition to include esports and obstacle course as well as having the highest number of sports in the history of the games, at a total of 56. The hosting rights were originally awarded to Brunei in 2012, but the country pulled out days before the 2015 Southeast Asian Games due to "financial and logistical reasons." In July 2015, the Philippines agreed to host the games after Brunei's withdrawal. However, the Philippines' hosting was left uncertain following the withdrawal of government support two years later as it planned to use the funds intended for the games for the rehabilitation of Marawi after being occupied by ISIS supporters. Thailand and Indonesia offered to host the games with the latter planning to reuse the venues used for the 2018 Asian Games. However, by 16 August 2017, the Philippine government announced the reversal of the withdrawal. The country's hosting of the 30th SEA Games is tagged as a "stepping stone" for its possible bid to host the 2030 Asian Games.. As per SEA Games traditions, hosting duties are rotated among the SEA Games Federation .. Unlike the 2005 SEA Games, the 2019 SEA Games adopted a different organizing structure for the Philippine Southeast Asian Games Organizing Committee the Philippines' national flower and the hammered portions of the object represents the rays of the Philippine flag's sun. According to the organizers, the sun symbolizes "unity, sovereignty, social equality, and independence" aside from sharing the same symbolism of the sun of the Philippine flag. The torch weighs about 1.5 kilograms, not too heavy for the torch bearer. The torch was officially unveiled on August 23, 2019 at the Philippine International Convention Center in Pasay during the 100-day countdown to the games. Preceding the torch run in the Philippines was the ceremonial lighting of the lantern at the Bukit Jalil National Stadium in Kuala Lumpur on October 3, 2019. During the ceremony, Malaysia the previous edition's host nation handed over the lantern which carried the Southeast Asian Games flame to the Philippines. After the handover ceremony, the flame hosted in the lantern was flown in to the Philippines. The torch run itself began at the SM Lanang in Davao City on October 30, 2019. The second leg of the run, participated by 6,500 runners was held at Cebu South Coastal Road in Cebu City on November 16, 2019. The final leg was held on November 23, 2019 at the Bayanihan Park at the Clark Freeport Zone in Pampanga. Prior to the torch run in Clark, the torch reportedly will be brought to Metro Manila then be brought to Tagaytay after which it will be brought back to Manila again where it will be hosted at the House of Representatives, the Senate, and possibly the Malacañang Palace. The cauldron to be lit by the torch is a metal structure that stands at , built outside the New Clark City Stadium in Capas, Tarlac and it was lit on November 30 by Manny Pacquiao and Nesthy Petecio during the Opening Ceremony of the games. The inside is a hollow space filled with gravel, with metal ladders placed on each side of the structure. According to the PHISGOC, the Philippine government spent around for the cauldron. The cauldron was designed by National Artist for Architecture, Francisco Mañosa, which was his last project prior to his death.. There are four designated clusters or hubs for the sporting events of the 2019 Southeast Asian Games namely Clark, Subic, Metro Manila, and "Other Areas". Previously the fourth cluster was reportedly known as the BLT mansions and villas for accommodating of the delegates from the competing countries has been proposed to be built in New Clark City. Each mansion will have 15 to 17 rooms each.. The official launch and countdown ceremony of the 2019 Southeast Asian Games was made at the Bayanihan Park at the Clark Freeport Zone in Pampanga which was attended by representatives of the 11 participating countries of the Games. At the ceremony the logo and theme of the Games were officially unveiled. A structure consisting of 11 rings representing the 11 countries was also lit up as part of the countdown ceremony. The mascot was shortly confirmed as official outside the countdown ceremony rites. The official motto of the 2019 Southeast Asian Games as well as its theme is "We Win as One." A preview of the logo of the 2019 SEA Games was earlier presented in front of the Olympic Council of Asia on August 20, 2018 in Jakarta, Indonesia during the 2018 Asian Games. The official logo depicts 11 rings from the logo of the Southeast Asian Games Federation forming the shape the Philippines and colored with the red, blue, yellow and green. It was made official during the launching ceremony in Bayanihan Park. The games' mascot is dubbed as Pami, with their name derived from the "pamilya", the Filipino word for "family". According to 2019 SEA Games executive director Ramon Suzara, the mascot represents every nation, every athlete, every person coming together that support each other at the games. The mascot with a joyful character has been described to have been made from squishy spherical balls. Just like the logo and theme, it was also previewed during the meeting in Jakarta, Indonesia. It was made official during the countdown ceremony in Bayanihan Park. Ryan Cayabyab composed the official theme song of the 2019 Southeast Asian Games, which shares the name of the games' official slogan "We Win as One". Floy Quintos wrote the lyrics for the song, which was officially launched on July 11, 2019. Lea Salonga performed for the official release of theme song. The theme song and music video for "We Win as One" was formally released on 3 September 2019 at the Resorts World Manila. The music video which was shot at the New Clark City Sports Hub was directed by Shem Hampac and was produced by Equinox Manila. Cayabyab originally made the composition of the song, with the expectation that 11 singers will do the official performance. The song was revised, in order to be more suitable for a solo performance, after Lea Salonga was tapped to do the performance. Cayabyab and Jimmy Antiporda were the ones responsible for the arrangement of the song. Clothing for official use were designed for the games various use. The presenters of the games' victory ceremonies would be wearing attire inspired from Filipino traditional clothing namely the Balintawak dress, Barong Tagalog, and Baro't Saya. Color coded polo shirt and jacket will also be devised: For Southeast Asian Games Federation officials it will be blue, for technical officials, green, for volunteers, red, and Philippine SEA Games Organizing Committee service from United States-based COAST Autonomous will be used to serve athletes and officials between the athletes’ village, aquatic center and athletics stadium in New Clark City. This will be the first ever implementation of an AV service in a major sporting event. SM Lifestyle, Inc., an arm of SM Prime Holdings, was named the regional games' official venue partner with the venue for men's basketball and ice hockey to be held in facilities managed by the SM Group. Skyworth was named as the official television partner in the games. They will also cover events prior to the competition proper including the torch relays in the Philippines and Malaysia, as well as the Game Hub and Fan Zones. The platinum-tier sponsorship was helped secured by Singapore firm Mediapro Asia. Mastercard is the main sponsor of the games' official mobile app which would allow users to view the schedule and results as well purchase tickets and food in the venue. The organizers secured insurance for the games' athletes and officials from Standard Insurance Co. Inc. which covered a period of October 15 to December 15, 2019 with each beneficiary having a coverage of . The insurance plan covers death or any accident related injuries incurred both during the games and in training, and losses due to sabotage and terrorist acts. Standard Insurance has EMA-Global as its medical service provider partner..  The Philippine Arena in Bocaue, Bulacan, the world's largest indoor arena, hosted the opening ceremony of the 2019 Southeast Asian Games. Filipino gymnast Carlos Yulo was initially the torch bearer and will light the cauldron during the opening ceremony. However, during the send-off ceremony for the athletes of the host country, he was replaced by world boxing champion, Senator Manny Pacquiao to be the torch bearer and light the cauldron. The opening ceremony will be reportedly inspired from the opening ceremonies of the 2017 Southeast Asian Games in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. The organizers have announced plans to conduct a digital lighting of the flame during the event but added they have a backup plan for a "normal, traditional opening ceremony". FiveCurrents, the live content creators that produced the London 2012 opening and closing ceremonies, will also be producing the 2019 Southeast Asian Games opening ceremonies together with the local producers; Video Sonic and Stage Craft. Filipino-American artist, apl.de.ap of The Black Eyed Peas performed at the opening ceremony. Collaborating with Ryan Cayabyab, he performed a remix of his troupe's song rendered in Filipino traditional instruments and orchestral accompaniment. Previously the organizers negotiated with another Filipino-American artist, Bruno Mars, to do the same. In August 2019, organizers planned to have local artists Lea Salonga and Arnel Pineda perform in the opening ceremony. However, on 25 November, Salonga announced that she will not be able to perform due to her prior commitments with Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. The closing ceremony will be held in the athletics stadium in New Clark City. The Black Eyed Peas as a group will perform in the closing ceremony. There are also plans for artists representing each of the 11 Southeast Asian Nations to perform in the opening and closing ceremonies. All 11 members of Southeast Asian Games Federation The Philippines will introduce 3x3 basketball for the first time in the history of the games. Upon the approval of the 56 proposed sports, it was reported that no additional sports was to be added. However the Philippine Olympic Committee later announced that it would propose the addition of beach handball and beach netball after consultations with the sports' respective national associations to the final list of sports to be contested in the games to be agreed upon on November. Following a meeting of the Southeast Asian Games Federation Council from November 23–24, 2018, the approval of the 56 proposed sports were finalized with 529 events planned to be contested. The number of events was finalized by mid-December 2018. The 2019 Southeast Asian Games has 530 events in 56 sports, resulting in 530 medal sets to be distributed. Other additional number of medal sets that will be distributed, will be announced before the awarding of different sports in the games respectively.. During the Games, which will be held from November 30 to December 11 some sports events will be broadcast live. The broadcasting channels will be announced before or during the game. ;Key Host nation In November 2018, it was reported that TV5 was negotiating for the broadcasting rights for the games in the Philippines. ABS-CBN, PTV and 5 will telecast the games on free TV. 11 sports will be broadcast live in the Philippines while only highlights will be aired for other events.