The 2019 Maharashtra Legislative Assembly election was held on 21 October 2019 to elect all 288 members of the state's Legislative Assembly. After a 61.3% turnout in the election, the ruling right-wing National Democratic Alliance won a majority. Following differences over the government formation, the alliance was dissolved precipitating a political crisis. Since general Election did not result in a council of ministers. President's rule had been imposed in Maharashtra after none of the 4 parties could manage to form the government. On 23 November 2019 Devendra Fadnavis was sworn in as the Chief Minister and Ajit Pawar was sworn in as Deputy Chief Minister. But both resigned on 26 November 2019 before the floor test and on 28 November 2019, Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress formed the government. . The previous Assembly elections were held in October 2014. After the election, Bharatiya Janata Party formed a majority government, with Devendra Fadnavis becoming Chief Minister.. The Election Commission announced the election dates for the Assembly elections in Maharashtra.. ;National Democratic Alliance Pre-election alliance of National Democratic Alliance .. After declaration of election result on 24 october 2019, Shiv Sena declined to support BJP for the government formation demanding equal share in the power and withdrew from Maha-Yuti Alliance . As no political party was able to prove the majority in the assembly, the President's rule was imposed in the state following recommendation by the Governor on 12 November 2019. Ultimately, the combination of largest legislative party BJP and a faction of the NCP agreed to form a grand coalition with Devendra Fadnavis returning as Chief Minister. Ajit Pawar of NCP was sworn in as Deputy Chief Minister. But the NCP national leadership has rebuffed this move and announced that it will not support BJP. On Tue, 26th Nov, Devendra Fadnavis resigned at press conference in Mumbai. On Thursday, November 28th Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackarey was sworn in as chief minister.