'Terminator Genisys' is a 2015 American science fiction action film directed by Alan Taylor, and written by Laeta Kalogridis and Patrick Lussier. The film reboots the Terminator film series, taking the basic story of the original film in another direction. It stars Arnold Schwarzenegger, who reprises his role as the Terminator, alongside Jason Clarke, Emilia Clarke, Jai Courtney, J. K. Simmons, Dayo Okeniyi, Matt Smith, Courtney B. Vance, and Lee Byung-hun. It follows Kyle Reese, a soldier in a post-apocalyptic future with a war against the machines led by Skynet, who is sent from 2029 to 1984 by John Connor, leader of the Human Resistance, to protect his mother Sarah. When Kyle arrives in the past, he discovers that the timeline has been altered, and Sarah has been raised by a reprogrammed Terminator. Megan Ellison and her production company Annapurna Pictures acquired the rights in May 2011. The following year, production of another installment in the series was set up in collaboration with Skydance Productions, owned by Ellison's brother David. The Ellisons consulted Terminator creator James Cameron in the hope of returning to the spirit of The Terminator . Principal photography was primarily in New Orleans, with some in the on-screen setting of San Francisco. Six companies handled the film's visual effects, with its prosthetic make-up and animatronics created by Legacy Effects. The film was released by Paramount Pictures on July 1, 2015, in RealD 3D and IMAX 3D. It was not well-received by critics, who found its story, visual effects and performances unsatisfactory, although Schwarzenegger's return and performance were praised. Terminator Genisys grossed over $440 million worldwide, making it the second-highest-grossing film of the series, and of Schwarzenegger's career, behind Terminator 2: Judgment Day. Though Terminator Genisys was originally planned as the first film of a new trilogy, it was announced in 2017 that the next film, Terminator: Dark Fate, would serve as a direct sequel to Terminator 2: Judgment Day, and reboot the series once again, following the return of creative control to James Cameron.. In 2029, Human Resistance leader John Connor launches a final offensive against Skynet, an artificial general intelligence system. Before the Resistance can triumph, Skynet activates a time machine and sends a Model 101/T-800 Terminator back to May 12, 1984, to kill John's mother Sarah. John's right-hand man, Kyle Reese, volunteers to travel back in time to protect her. As Kyle floats in the machine's magnetic field, he sees John being attacked by another Resistance soldier and has visions from his childhood about Sarah Connor. When it arrives in Los Angeles 1984, Skynet's T-800 is disabled by Sarah and "Pops", a reprogrammed T-800 sent to protect Sarah when she was nine years old. Kyle arrives shortly afterwards, and is intercepted by a T-1000. Sarah and Pops join Kyle and destroy the T-1000 with acid; she and Pops reveal that they have constructed a makeshift time machine similar to Skynet's, and Sarah plans to travel to 1997 . Realizing that the timeline has been altered, Kyle is convinced that the future has changed because of the warning he received in his childhood vision and persuades Sarah to travel to 2017 to stop Skynet. In 2017, Kyle and Sarah materialize in the middle of a busy San Francisco highway and are apprehended by city police. While they are treated for injuries, Sarah and Kyle learn that Skynet is called "Genisys"—a soon-to-be-unveiled global operating system which is embraced by the public. John suddenly appears and rescues Sarah and Kyle; Pops arrives and unexpectedly shoots John, revealing that John is an advanced T-3000 Terminator. While Kyle was traveling back in time a T-5000, the physical embodiment of Skynet disguised as a member of the Resistance, attacked John and infected him with machine phase matter. John, tasked with ensuring survival, traveled back in time to assist them with the development of Genisys and hence securing Skynet and its machines' rise. A day before Skynet's worldwide attack, Sarah, Kyle and Pops escape to a safe house and make final preparations to destroy Cyberdyne's Genisys mainframe. They head toward Cyberdyne's headquarters with the T-3000 in close pursuit. During an airborne chase, Pops dive-bombs into the T-3000's helicopter and causes it to crash. The T-3000 survives the crash and enters the Cyberdyne complex, where it advances the countdown from 13 hours to 15 minutes. Kyle, Sarah and Pops plant bombs at key points in the facility while holding off the T-3000. In a final battle, Pops traps the T-3000 in the magnetic field of a prototypical time machine. Both are destroyed, but just before the explosion the remains of Pops are flung out of the apparatus into a nearby experimental vat of . Kyle and Sarah reach a bunker beneath the facility and the explosion sets off the bombs, preventing Genisys from coming online. Pops appears, upgraded with mimetic polyalloy components similar to that of the T-1000, and helps them escape from the debris. The trio travels to Kyle's childhood home, where Kyle tells his younger self about Genisys and instructs him to repeat the warning to himself, securing the trio's arrival from 1984. Sarah and Kyle finally kiss and they along with Pops drive off into the countryside. A mid-credits scene reveals that the system core of Genisys, located in a protected subterranean chamber, has survived the explosion.. * Arnold Schwarzenegger as the Model 101/T-800, referred to as "Pops" and credited as "Guardian": A reprogrammed Terminator who is Sarah's protector and mentor.* Brett Azar stood in on-set as the body double for the Young Guardian in 1973, and Guardian's doppelgänger as Alex: An advanced T-5000 Terminator who embodies Skynet. Alex's appearance is also used by Skynet as a holographic avatar in 2017.* Ian Etheridge as Skynet, age 10.* Nolan Gross as Skynet, age 12–14.* Seth Meriwether as Skynet, age 18. Courtney B. Vance as Miles Dyson: Cyberdyne Systems' CEO, who, in the original timeline, was one of Skynet's creators; he funds his company's Genisys project. Michael Gladis as Lieutenant Matias: A SFPD police lieutenant and O'Brien's superior. Sandrine Holt as Detective Cheung: A SFPD police detective and O'Brien's colleague. Byung-Hun Lee as Cop / T-1000: A shapeshifting prototypical Terminator composed of mimetic polyalloy..  Although Terminator Salvation was intended to begin a new trilogy, the production of a fifth film was put on hold because of legal issues with franchise owner the Halcyon Company and, in more dangerous scenes, Azar and a stunt double—requiring effects artists to replace the face of Pops. MPC also handled the future battle, with set extensions and Skynet robots and vehicles based on models by Legacy Effects. ILM did the opening scene – in which San Francisco is wiped out on Judgment Day, inspired by the Los Angeles nuclear destruction in Terminator 2: Judgment Day – and the Terminator vision. For the IMAX 3D release, the film was remastered with IMAX DMR technology to create 3D effects and a high-resolution film print.. Lorne Balfe composed the film's score. Hans Zimmer joins in as an executive music producer. Balfe aimed to create a soundtrack which stood in its own, since Terminator Genisys is "not a prequel and not a sequel", incorporating Brad Fiedel's iconic theme in The Terminator: "have a nod to the past but also bring it into the future." Chinese pop singer Jane Zhang and hip hop artist Big Sean contributed "Fighting Shadows", released by Def Jam Recordings on June 30, 2015, as a soundtrack bonus track. The track is Zhang's first English-language recording and Big Sean's musical feature-film debut. A music video of the single, produced and directed by Robby Starbuck, included footage from the film. The Ramones' "I Wanna Be Sedated", OneRepublic's "Love Runs Out" and Inner Circle's "Bad Boys" are heard in the film but not included in the soundtrack.. Terminator Genisys saw its European premiere in Berlin, on June 21, 2015, and had its North American premiere at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood one week later, on June 28. The film was first released in ten markets on June 25; the following week, it was released in 35 countries , which was followed by an interview and selfie session. The film was released for digital download on October 20, 2015, and was released by Paramount Home Entertainment on DVD, Blu-ray and Blu-ray 3D on November 10. Terminator Genisys debuted as the bestselling Blu-ray and the most-rented film of the week, and was second in overall home-video sales to Inside Out. It has grossed over $25.1 million in total domestic video sales, bringing the film's gross to $465.3 million. A 4K UHD Blu-ray release occurred on June 12, 2018..  Terminator Genisys grossed $89.7 million in North America and $350.8 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $440.6 million. Of the Terminator franchise, only Terminator 2: Judgment Day earned more at the box office. Because of its $155 million production budget and an estimated $50–100 million spent on marketing, Bloomberg Business reported that the film would have needed to earn at least $450 million in its theatrical run to break even. In August 2015 Forbes cited Terminator Genisys as the first American film to earn $400 million worldwide without grossing $100 million in North America, earnings comparable to the French film The Intouchables. It was the first Hollywood release to earn $100 million in China and less than that in North America; both were duplicated the following summer by Warcraft. The film opened on July 1, 2015 in the United States and Canada . Rob Cain of Forbes attributed the successful opening in China to Schwarzenegger's popularity, audience appetite for films with robots, disasters and machines and its being the first Hollywood film released after a 60-day blackout of non-Chinese films. As of September 12, 2015, Terminator Genisys had grossed $112.8 million in China. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports an approval rating of 26% based on 254 reviews, with an average rating of 4.71/10. The website's critical consensus reads, "Mired in its muddled mythology, Terminator: Genisys is a lurching retread that lacks the thematic depth, conceptual intelligence, or visual thrills that launched this once-mighty franchise." On Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average to critic reviews, the film has a score of 38 out of 100, based on 41 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable reviews". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "B+" on an A+ to F scale. The Los Angeles Times said critics found the film to be a "messy sequel" that was a "convoluted retread" of past films. According to TheWrap, critics found the time travel storyline to be "convoluted" and that the performances were "unremarkable" aside from Schwarzenegger reprising his role. Joe Morgenstern of The Wall Street Journal criticized the film, saying that it "plays like the worst of all outcomes". James Rocchi of TheWrap compared it negatively to The Terminator, writing that Genisys "comes back from the past to water down a whole season of summer moviegoing". Michael Phillips of the Chicago Tribune criticized the film's lack of originality, calling it "simply business and dull business at that". Michael O'Sullivan of The Washington Post enjoyed the film: "Genisys goes back to what made the franchise work in the first place: not the machine inside the man, but vice versa." Richard Lawson of Vanity Fair also gave a positive review, writing that the film "makes a surprisingly compelling case" for itself. Mark Hughes of Forbes called many of the negative reviews a result of "cynical nostalgia" which "distrusts change and anticipates failure", calling the review-aggregator ratings "ridiculously and undeservedly low". After seeing a pre-release screening of the film, Cameron voiced his support for Terminator Genisys. Describing it as respectful to the first two films, Cameron said he felt like "the franchise has been reinvigorated". However, in 2017, Cameron said that he had supported Terminator Genisys only because of his friendship with Schwarzenegger. Actress Emilia Clarke expressed relief to discover there would not be any sequels following the film's poor box office performance. In reference to the film's director Alan Taylor, with whom she had worked on Game of Thrones, Clarke said, "He was eaten and chewed up on Terminator. He was not the director I remembered. He didn't have a good time. No one had a good time.". In December 2013, The Hollywood Reporter reported that a television series was in the works, which would tie into a new Terminator film trilogy. Sequels to Terminator Genisys were scheduled for release on May 19, 2017 and June 29, 2018, under the tentative titles of Terminator 2 and Terminator 3, but they were ultimately cancelled. The two sequels were to be filmed back to back during nine months of continuous shooting. The storylines for the two sequels were devised by Kalogridis and Lussier. The new trilogy would have explained who sent Pops back to protect Sarah Connor. J. K. Simmons would have had further involvement in the new trilogy, and Dayo Okeniyi would have a significant role reprising Danny Dyson in the second film, which would have focused on John Connor's life after becoming part machine. Jason Clarke said about the cancelled Genisys sequel: Development stalled in 2015 after Terminator Genisys under-performed at the box office. On October 1, 2015, The Hollywood Reporter confirmed that the sequels and television spin-off were on hold indefinitely, following the film's overall box office performance. According to Skydance COO Dana Goldberg, the company was pressing forward with development but would further analyze market research before starting production. In January 2016, the planned Terminator 2 was removed from Paramount's release schedule. In April 2016, Emilia Clarke said that she would not return for any sequels. Ultimately, Cameron and David Ellison produced a new film, Terminator: Dark Fate, which is a direct sequel to Terminator 2: Judgment Day. It is intended as the first in a new trilogy of planned Terminator films. The film was directed by Tim Miller, and features the return of Schwarzenegger and Hamilton. It was released on November 1, 2019.