Taika David Waititi , the latter of which he also wrote.. Waititi is from the Raukokore area of the East Coast region of the North Island of New Zealand and grew up there and in Wellington, and attended Onslow College for secondary school. His father is M훮ori of Te Wh훮nau-훮-Apanui, whilst his maternal grandfather is of Russian Jewish heritage and his maternal grandmother is of Irish heritage. Waititi has used his mother's surname, "Cohen", for some of his work in film and writing..  While a drama student at Victoria University of Wellington, Waititi was part of the five-member ensemble So You're a Man, which toured New Zealand and Australia with some success. He was half of the comedy duo The Humourbeasts alongside Jemaine Clement, which received New Zealand's highest comedy accolade, the Billy T Award, in 1999. Waititi has also acted on screen since early in his career. He won a local film award for his work as one of the students in the successful low-budget Dunedin film Scarfies on the run in the forest. Waititi wrote the initial screenplay for the 2016 Disney film Moana, which focused on gender and family. Those elements were passed over in favour of what would become the finalised story. In 2017, Waititi won the award for New Zealander of the Year, but was unable to receive it in person due to work commitments. Waititi next directed his first major Hollywood film, Marvel Studios' Thor: Ragnarok, which was released in October 2017. He had previously directed two shorts for Marvel called "Team Thor", which dealt with Thor's living in Australia with his roommate, Darryl Jacobson. Waititi was later consulted by Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely regarding Thor's storylines for Avengers: Infinity War. Waititi was set to collaborate with Mark Gustafson to direct the upcoming stop-motion animated film Bubbles, which was about the life of Michael Jackson seen from the perspective of his pet chimpanzee, Bubbles. However, Waititi left the project in 2019 due to a heavy work schedule. Waititi is also reportedly directing a new live-action film version of Akira and is preparing to start co-writing a sequel to What We Do in the Shadows, titled We're Wolves. In 2019, Waititi wrote and directed Jojo Rabbit, based on the book Caging Skies by Christine Leunens, the 1940s-set story of a young Hitler Youth member whose parents are secretly hiding a Jewish girl in the family home. Waititi plays Adolf Hitler as the boy's imaginary friend. On July 16, 2019, it was reported that Waititi will write and direct a sequel to Ragnarok,Thor: Love and Thunder, causing Akira to be delayed indefinitely. In early August 2019, Waititi had been hired by The Walt Disney Company to direct a secret project, under their 20th Century Fox banner. Later that month it was revealed that the movie would be a feature film adaptation of Next Goal Wins. Waititi will co-write the script with Iain Morris. Garrett Basch, Jonathan Cavendish, Andy Serkis, Mike Brett, and Steve Jamison will serve as producers. The production will be a joint venture between Fox Searchlight, and The Imaginarium. Principle photography is scheduled for fall 2019. In early October 2018, Lucasfilm announced that Waititi would be one of the directors of the upcoming Star Wars live-action streaming series The Mandalorian, which tells the story of a lone Mandalorian gunfighter in the period between the events of Return of the Jedi and The Force Awakens.. In May 2012, Waititi's wife, Chelsea Winstanley, of M훮ori descent, gave birth to their first daughter. Their second daughter was born in August 2015. In the run-up to the 2017 New Zealand general election, Waititi announced his support for Jacinda Ardern and the Labour Party. He describes himself as a "Polynesian Jew"..  "Ladies of the World", Flight of the Conchords 