Christian Charles Philip Bale . For portraying Dick Cheney in the latter, he won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor. In 2019 he starred as race car driver Ken Miles in James Mangold's Ford v Ferrari. Bale's personal life and personality has been the subject of much public attention, despite his desire to keep a low profile. He is a supporter of Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, Greenpeace, and the World Wildlife Fund, and obtained American citizenship in 2014. Bale has been married to Sandra Blažić since 2000; they have two children.. Bale was born in Haverfordwest, Pembrokeshire, the son of Jenny , a circus performer, and David Bale, an entrepreneur, commercial pilot and talent manager. Bale has three sisters. His mother is English and his father was born in South Africa, to English parents. Bale has remarked, "I was born in Wales but I'm not Welsh – I'm English". He spent his childhood in Wales, Surrey and Dorset in England, and Portugal. Bale acknowledged that the frequent relocation had a major influence on his career choice. He attended Bournemouth School, but left at age 16. Bale studied the work of actor Gary Oldman, citing him as "the reason I'm acting". His first role was a commercial for the fabric softener Lenor in 1982. A year later, he appeared in a Pac-Man cereal commercial, playing a child rock star. In 1984, he made his stage debut in The Nerd on London's West End with Rowan Atkinson. Bale's parents divorced in 1991. His mother and sister Sharon stayed in Bournemouth, and Bale moved with his father to Los Angeles, California at age seventeen..  Bale made his film debut as Tsarevich Alexei Nikolaevich of Russia in the made for television film Anastasia: The Mystery of Anna in 1986, which was followed by leading roles in the miniseries Heart of the Country and the fantasy adventure Mio in the Land of Faraway, in which he appeared with Christopher Lee and Nick Pickard. His performance as the boy Jim Graham in Empire of the Sun , directed by James Mangold.. On 29 January 2000, Bale married Sandra "Sibi" Blažić . In 2019, he jokingly referred to them as "Banana and Burrito" in his acceptance speech at the Golden Globes, a light-hearted dig aimed at celebrity couples giving their children unusual names. Bale currently resides in Brentwood, Los Angeles, having previously lived in Santa Monica, California. He applied for U.S. citizenship in 2010 and completed the naturalization process in 2014. In 2000, Bale became the stepson of feminist Gloria Steinem, who married his father David Bale that year. The senior Bale died in 2003 of a brain lymphoma. Bale actively supports environmental groups such as Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, Greenpeace, and the World Wildlife Fund. Along with his wife, Sibi, he is on the Board of Trustees of the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund. On 22 July 2008, Bale was arrested in London after being accused of assault by his mother, Jenny, and sister, Sharon, at The Dorchester hotel. After his mother and sister called the authorities, Bale was held for more than four hours. He was released on bail, pending further investigation. On 14 August 2008, police declared that they would take no further action against him. Bale denied that any assault had occurred, and the charges were dismissed for lack of evidence.. Bale has been described in the media as one of the most versatile and talented actors of his generation. The media considers Bale a sex symbol, an image he has confessed to disliking: "All you have to do is stand on this side of the red carpet and you're called a sex symbol. There's no more to it than that." In 2011, he was listed among the Time 100, a compilation of the 100 most influential people in the world selected annually by Time.