Jonathan Favreau . He created and is an executive producer of the Star Wars television series The Mandalorian for Disney+, which premiered on November 12, 2019. He produces films under his production company banner, Fairview Entertainment.. Favreau was born in Flushing, Queens, New York, the son of Madeleine, an elementary school teacher who died of leukemia in 1979, and Charles Favreau, a special education teacher. His mother was Jewish , and in the summer of 1988, moved to Chicago to pursue a career in comedy. He performed at several Chicago improvisational theaters, including the ImprovOlympic and the Improv Institute..  While in Chicago, Favreau landed his first film role alongside Sean Astin as football tutor D-Bob in the sleeper hit Rudy . Favreau filmed a scene for Avengers: Infinity War, but was cut, ending up on the Blu-Ray release. In 2017, Favreau directed the pilot episode of CBS' Young Sheldon. In 2018, Favreau appeared in Solo: A Star Wars Story voicing Rio Durant, "a very cool and important alien character" and member of Beckett's crew, In the 2019 film Avengers: Endgame, Favreau reprised his role as Happy Hogan in a cameo near the end of the film. The film, directed by the Russo brothers, was executive-produced by Favreau. Avengers: Endgame was released on April 26, 2019. Favreau also appeared in the sequel to Homecoming, Spider-Man: Far From Home. In September 2016, it was reported that Favreau would direct a CGI adaptation of Disney's The Lion King, marking his first time directing a musical. Donald Glover voiced Simba, and James Earl Jones reprised his role as Mufasa from the original film. The film was released in July 2019. On July 29, The Lion King surpassed The Jungle Book to become the highest-grossing film of Favreau's career, while also surpassing the original film. In May 2019, it was also announced that Favreau would co-host and executive produce a cooking show for Netflix along with co-host Roy Choi, called The Chef Show. It premiered in June 2019. On March 8, 2018, Lucasfilm announced that Favreau will executive produce and write a live-action Star Wars television series, titled The Mandalorian, for Disney+. The series premiered in November 12, 2019, alongside the streaming service. In April 2016, it was reported that Favreau will return to direct to The Jungle Book, his critically acclaimed live-action adaptation of the animated film of the same name. Early pre-production of the sequel had begun by June 12, 2018, with Justin Marks, who wrote the previous film, having ended an early draft for the film. In May 2019, it was announced that Favreau would produce the documentary series Prehistoric Planet alongside the BBC Natural History Unit for Apple TV+.. A motion-captured animated film titled Neanderthals was in development at Sony Pictures Animation in the mid-2000s that Favreau would've written and produced, but the project was cancelled sometime in 2008 after four years in development. In November 2010, it was reported that Favreau will direct a film entitled , based on The Walt Disney Company's theme park of the same name. In July 2012, Favreau reported officially that he was working on the film. In 2014, he stated that he still had interest in the project, and that he could direct it after finishing filming The Jungle Book. In November 2012, it was said that Favreau was being considered to direct Star Wars: The Force Awakens, along with David Fincher, Matthew Vaughn and Ben Affleck; but J.J. Abrams was selected to direct the film. However, in June 2015, Favreau stated that although he would not be working on the Star Wars anthology films, he could work on future Star Wars movies at some point. On September 28, 2013, Mental Floss reported that at one point, Favreau tried to direct a sequel to his film Elf, entitled Elf 2: Buddy Saves Christmas, but it was later cancelled. In December 2013, Will Ferrell stated that he didn't want to make a sequel to Elf. Despite this, during an interview in January 2016, Favreau stated that a sequel could possibly be made. The next month however, Ferrell reiterated that it's unlikely that the sequel will happen and that he still didn't want to return to the role.. Favreau married physician Joya Tillem on November 24, 2000. The couple has a son and two daughters. Tillem is the niece of lawyer/talk show host Len Tillem. Favreau credits the role-playing game Dungeons & Dragons with giving him "a really strong background in imagination, storytelling, understanding how to create tone and a sense of balance.". In May 2019, it was announced that Favreau will be named a Disney Legend at the 2019 D23 Expo for his outstanding contributions to The Walt Disney Company.