'Tanhaji: The Unsung Warrior' is an upcoming Indian biographical period action film starring Ajay Devgn, Saif Ali Khan, and Kajol, with Jagapathi Babu, Pankaj Tripathi and Sharad Kelkar in supporting roles. Directed by Om Raut, the film is set in the 17th century and is based on the life of Tanaji Malusare, who was the military leader of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, founder of the Maratha Empire. Principal photography commenced on 25 September 2018. It was scheduled for a worldwide release on 27 December 2019. It is now scheduled to be theatrically released in India on 10 January 2020.. In the late 17th century, the Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb declares strategic hill fortress Kondhana as the capital of Southern India from which he planned to expand Mughal empire into South India. However, The Maratha Emperor Shivaji Maharaj orders his General Tanaji Malusare to capture Kondhana at any cost to protect Southern India from Mughal invasion, while the Mughal emperor sends his trusted commander Uday Bhan to defend the fortress, thus leading to a battle between the two armies for control of the fortress. The Battle is known as the Battle of Sinhagad which decided the fate of South India.. * Ajay Devgn as Tanaji Malusare Saif Ali Khan as Uday Bhan Kajol as Savitribai Malusare Sharad Kelkar as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Luke Kenny as Aurangzeb Padmavati Rao as Jijabai Jagapathi Babu as Shelaar Mama Devdatta Nage as Suryaji Malusare Pankaj Tripathi as Mirza Raja Jai Singh Neha Sharma as Kamla Devi Ajinkya Deo as Pisal Hardik Sangani as Gondya. The film's pre-production began on 20 July 2017 and principal photography commenced on 25 September 2018.. Earlier marketed as Taanaji: The Unsung Warrior, it was revealed on twitter by Ajay Devgn that the film will be known as Tanhaji. In December 2017 the release date of Tanhaji was revealed as 22 November 2019. But in December 2018 director Om Raut shared on his Twitter account that the date is postponed to December 2019 due to shooting problems. On 1 January 2019, director Om Raut released first-look image of Tanhaji. The official posters of the film were released throughout November 2019 by the team of Tanhaji. On 19 November official trailer of the film was launched by T-Series. The film was scheduled for the worldwide release on 27 December 2019, but on 24 March, the release date was further pushed back to 10 January 2020.. The film's music was composed by Ajay-Atul, Sachet–Parampara and Mehul Vyas with lyrics written by Swanand Kirkire and Anil Verma.