'Parasite' is a 2019 South Korean black comedy thriller film directed by Bong Joon-ho, who also wrote the film's story and co-wrote the screenplay with Han Jin-won. The film stars Song Kang-ho, Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Choi Woo-shik and Park So-dam, and follows a young man from a poor household who begins to tutor a rich family's daughter. Alongside his parents and sister, he slowly starts to infiltrate their personal lives. Parasite had its world premiere at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival on 21 May 2019, where it won the Palme d'Or, becoming the first Korean film to receive the award and the first film to do so with a unanimous vote since 2013's Blue Is the Warmest Colour. It was selected as the South Korean entry for Best International Feature Film at the 92nd Academy Awards. The film was released in South Korea by CJ Entertainment on 30 May 2019, and in the rest of the world by Neon in late-2019. It received widespread critical acclaim and earned $121.8 million worldwide, becoming Bong's highest-grossing release.. Kim Ki-taek, his wife Chung-sook, son Ki-woo, and daughter Ki-jeong live in a small semi-basement apartment, working low-paying jobs and struggling to make ends meet. Ki-woo's friend Min-hyuk, who is preparing to study abroad, gifts the Kim family with a scholar's rock which is supposed to bring them wealth. He suggests Ki-woo pose as a university student to take over Min-hyuk's job as an English tutor for the daughter of the wealthy Park family, Da-hye. Once Ki-woo is hired, the Kims all pose as sophisticated skilled workers, unrelated to each other, and integrate themselves into the lives of the Parks: Ki-woo begins a romantic relationship with Da-hye; Ki-jeong poses as an art therapist and is hired to teach youngest son Da-song; Ki-taek is hired as a chauffeur after Mr. Park's driver is fired when Ki-jeong frames him for having sex in the car; and Chung-sook is hired to replace the current housekeeper, Moon-gwang, after the Kims exploit her allergy to peaches, claiming that she has tuberculosis. When the Parks leave on a camping trip, the Kims occupy the mansion, revelling in its luxuries. That night, Moon-gwang returns, claiming that she left something in the basement. She opens a secret bunker, revealing that her husband, Geun-sae, has lived there for years to hide from loan sharks. As she begs Chung-sook to keep their secret, the eavesdropping Kims accidentally stumble into view. Moon-gwang threatens to expose their scam after realizing they are a family, leading to a fight. The Parks suddenly call, informing Chung-sook that heavy rain has ruined the trip and that they are arriving home shortly. The Kims force Geun-sae and Moon-gwang into the bunker; Moon-gwang attempts to escape, but is kicked down the stairs by Chung-sook and suffers a fatal head injury. When the Parks return, Mrs. Park tells Chung-sook that her son was traumatized years earlier by seeing a "ghost" emerge from the basement: Geun-sae. With the other three Kims hiding nearby, Mr. Park complains to his wife that while Ki-taek is a competent driver, he smells poor. The three Kims escape the mansion undetected, but find their apartment flooded by sewage water driven by the rain. They spend the night in a local gym, along with hundreds of others driven out by the rain. The following day, Mrs. Park throws a birthday party for Da-song and invites the staff. Ki-woo returns to the bunker with the scholar's rock, but is ambushed by Geun-sae, who hits him over the head with the rock. Geun-sae escapes the basement bunker and rushes into the party, stabbing Ki-jeong in the chest. Geun-sae's sudden appearance triggers Da-song's traumatic memory, causing a seizure. As Ki-taek rushes to help Ki-jeong, Mr. Park yells at him to drive Da-song to the hospital. Ki-taek throws him the car keys, which land under the struggling Chung-sook and Geun-sae. Chung-sook manages to kill Geun-sae with a meat skewer. As Mr. Park retrieves the keys, he recoils from Geun-sae's smell. Ki-taek, witnessing Mr. Park's reaction to the smell, fatally stabs him before fleeing. Weeks later, Ki-woo awakens from a coma and is sentenced along with Chung-sook to probation for fraud; Ki-jeong has died from her stab wound, while the whereabouts of Ki-taek, who is wanted for Mr. Park's murder, are unknown. While watching the Parks' recently sold mansion, Ki-woo notices a light flickering in Morse codea SKATS message from Ki-taek, who now lives in the bunker. Ki-woo vows to one day earn enough money to purchase the mansion and free his father.. The film had its world premiere at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival on 21 May. It was released in South Korea on 30 May 2019. Neon acquired the North American rights to the film at the 2018 American Film Market . It was released in Russia on 4 July 2019, and in the United States and Canada on 11 October 2019. The film was originally scheduled to be screened as a closing film at FIRST International Film Festival Xining in China on 28 July 2019, but on 27 July, the film festival organizers announced that the screening was cancelled for "technical reasons.".  , Parasite has grossed $16.7 million in the United States and Canada, and $105.1 million in other territories . Writing for the New York Times, A.O. Scott described the film as "wildly entertaining, the kind of smart, generous, aesthetically energized movie that obliterates the tired distinctions between art films and popcorn movies." Bilge Ebiri of NY Mag wrote that Parasite is "a work that is itself in a state of constant, agitated transformation—a nerve-racking masterpiece whose spell lingers long after its haunting final image." In his five-star review of the film, Dave Calhoun of Time Out praised the social commentary and stated that "This is a dazzling work, surprising and fully gripping from beginning to end, full of big bangs and small wonders." Varietys Jessica Kiang described the film as "a wild, wild ride," writing that "Bong is back and on brilliant form, but he is unmistakably, roaringly furious, and it registers because the target is so deserving, so enormous, so 2019: Parasite is a tick fat with the bitter blood of class rage." The A.V. Clubs A. A. Dowd gave the film an A−, praising the fun and surprising twists. 6th - Stephanie Zacharek, The Times In 2019, IndieWire ranked Parasite 48th in its 100 best movies of the decade list. Parasite won the Palme d'Or at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival. It was the first South Korean film to do so as well as the first film to do so with a unanimous vote since 2013's Blue is the Warmest Colour. It was selected as the South Korean entry for Best International Feature Film at the 92nd Academy Awards.