The 2019 United States elections were held, in large part, on Tuesday, November 5, 2019. This off-year election included gubernatorial elections in Kentucky, Louisiana, and Mississippi, regularly-scheduled state legislative elections in Louisiana, Mississippi, Virginia, and New Jersey, and special elections for seats in various state legislatures. Numerous citizen initiatives, mayoral races, and a variety of other local elections also occurred. Three special elections to the United States House of Representatives also took place in 2019 as a result of vacancies. Democrats regained the governorship of Kentucky and held the office in Louisiana, despite strong campaign efforts by President Donald Trump for the Republican candidates. Democrats also took control of the state legislature in Virginia. Republicans held the governor's mansion in Mississippi and expanded their control of the Louisiana state legislature and gained seats in the New Jersey state legislature. A major theme in the election results was a suburban revolt against Trump and the Republican Party in general, as these areas swung heavily towards Democratic candidates in local, state, and federal elections.. Three special elections were held in 2019 to fill vacancies during the 116th U.S. Congress: Pennsylvania's 12th congressional district: Republican Tom Marino resigned on January 23, 2019, to take a private sector job. The district has a partisan index of R+17. Republican state Rep. Fred Keller defeated Democrat Marc Friedenberg in the May 21 election, keeping the seat in Republican hands. North Carolina's 3rd congressional district: Republican Walter B. Jones Jr. died on February 10, 2019. The district has a partisan index of R+12. Republican state Rep. Greg Murphy was elected, defeating Democrat Allen M. Thomas and Libertarian Tim Harris. North Carolina's 9th congressional district: Due to allegations of election fraud, the results for the 9th congressional district were not certified for the 2018 election, leaving the seat vacant once the 116th Congress began . On February 21, 2019, the North Carolina State Board of Elections voted unanimously to hold a new election. The district has a partisan index of R+8. Republican state Sen. Dan Bishop was narrowly elected, defeating Democrat Dan McCready, Libertarian Jeff Scott, and Green Loran Allen Smith. Additional vacancies occurred in Wisconsin's 7th Congressional district following the resignation of Republican Sean Duffy in September 2019; New York's 27th Congressional district following the October 2019 resignation of Republican Chris Collins ahead of his pleading guilty to insider trading; California's 25th Congressional district following the resignation of Democrat Katie Hill in November 2019; and Maryland's 7th Congressional district following the death of Democrat Elijah Cummings on October 17, 2019. Georgia Republican Sen. Johnny Isakson announced in August 2019 that he would resign on December 31, 2019, due to deteriorating health. Special elections to fill the seats are scheduled to occur in 2020. Also, on July 4, 2019, Rep. Justin Amash declared he would leave the Republican Party but continue to serve in Congress as an independent, affecting the partisan balance of the Michigan delegation.. Three states held gubernatorial elections in 2019: Kentucky: In the May 21 primaries, one-term incumbent Republican Matt Bevin faced a strong challenge from three opponents in the Republican primary but managed to win with 52.4%; Democratic Attorney General Andy Beshear also faced a strong competition from two other challengers in the Democratic primary but managed to win with 37.9%. In the November 5 general election, Andy Beshear defeated Matt Bevin by just 0.4 percent of the vote; however, the Associated Press declared the race too close to call, and Bevin refused to concede on election night, requesting a recanvass. The recanvass showed little change in the vote totals, and Bevin conceded the election on November 14. Louisiana: One-term Democrat John Bel Edwards defeated Eddie Rispone in a run-off election, securing a second term. In the state's October blanket primary, Edwards faced Republicans U.S. Rep. Ralph Abraham and businessman Eddie Rispone, along with three minor candidates. While Edwards received 46.6% of the vote, he did not win a majority and therefore faces a Saturday, November 16 runoff election against Rispone, who received 27.4% of the vote. The runoff election was held on November 16th. Despite Republican Donald Trump winning the state by 20 points in 2016, John Bel Edwards was able to narrowly win re-election with 51.3% of the vote against Eddie Rispone's 48.7%. Mississippi: Two-term Republican Phil Bryant was in 2019 and therefore ineligible to seek re-election. In the August 6 primary elections, Attorney General Jim Hood won the Democratic primary, and on August 27, Lt. Gov. Tate Reeves defeated Mississippi Supreme Court Chief Justice Bill Waller Jr. to win the Republican nomination. Though the Associated Press described Hood as the "best-funded Democratic nominee for Mississippi governor since 2003," Reeves won the Mississippi gubernatorial race by a comfortable 52.3% to 46.5% margin. Legislative elections were held for both houses of the Louisiana Legislature, the Mississippi Legislature, and the Virginia General Assembly, as well as the lower house of the New Jersey Legislature. Republicans maintained control of the Mississippi Legislature, while Democrats kept control of the New Jersey Legislature. Democrats gained majorities of both houses of the Virginia General Assembly, giving them control of the legislature for the first time in 20 years. In Louisiana, Republicans expanded their control of the Louisiana Legislature, gaining a supermajority in the state Senate and falling two seats shy of a supermajority in the Louisiana House. Special elections were also held during the year to fill state legislative seats vacated due to retirement, death, resignation, election to another office, or other reasons. , special elections have been set or run for 77 seats — 39 held by Democrats and 38 held by Republicans. , of the 72 special elections held, five seats flipped from Democratic to Republican, two flipped from Republican to Democratic, and one flipped from Republican to Independent. None of these changes impacted partisan control of the state legislature. In the 2019 elections, Republicans successfully defended their "trifecta" in Mississippi, while Democrats defended their trifecta in New Jersey and prevented Republicans from gaining a trifecta in Louisiana. Republicans lost their trifecta in Kentucky, while Democrats gained a trifecta in Virginia. These state elections will impact the redistricting that will follow the 2020 United States Census, as many states task governors and state legislators with drawing new boundaries for state legislative and Congressional districts. 24 binding ballot measures were voted on in seven states.In Pennsylvania, voters were to consider a constitutional amendment to adopt Marsy's Law protections for crime victims. Just days before the election, however, an injunction was issued blocking the commonwealth from tallying votes on the amendment. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania affirmed the injunction on the eve of the election.In Texas, voters approved nine of ten proposed amendments to the Lone Star State's constitution, most notably Proposition 4, intended to ban a state income tax. Texas is one of only nine U.S. states without a state income tax.In Washington state, voters narrowly approved Referendum 88, a veto referendum to overturn , which allowed for affirmative action policies in the areas of public education, employment, and contracting. Voters also approved Initiative 976, limiting motor vehicle registration fees used for infrastructure and transit projects; passage of the bill is expected to decrease funding for transportation projects in the state by $4 billion by 2025. In the U.S. Virgin Islands, a ballot initiative to change how seats in the Legislature of the Virgin Islands are apportioned was defeated due to low voter turnout. A majority of voters approved of the reapportionment plan during the March 30, 2019, special election; however, only about 9 percent of registered voters participated in the election, and a majority of all registered voters was required for the initiative to pass..  Although most mayorships and other local offices are non-partisan, when looking at party identification of the officeholders, registered Democrats gained three mayorships during 2019 . In South Bend, Indiana, Democrat James Mueller defeated Republican Sean Haas to replace incumbent Pete Buttigieg, who declined to run for a third term in favor of a presidential campaign. In Garland, Texas, Scott LeMay was unopposed in seeking an open mayoral seat. Other major cities holding mayoral elections in 2019 include:Boise, Idaho: This is a non-partisan office. Incumbent Dave Bieter, running for his fifth term, came in second in the November 5 general election behind city council president Lauren McLean. Because neither won more than 50% of the vote McLean and Bieter will face each other December 3 in Boise's first-ever mayoral runoff election.Houston: Incumbent mayor Sylvester Turner, seeking a second term, was forced into a December 14 runoff election against Texas A&M University Regent Tony Buzbee.Turner earned 47% of the vote, falling short of a majority. Buzbee drew 28%Special mayoral election in Allentown, Pennsylvania, interim mayor Ray O'Connell was elected to finish the remaining two years of former Mayor Ed Pawlowski, who resigned in 2018 after being convicted for corruption.Special Election Runoff in Phoenix, Arizona, following the resignation of Mayor Greg Stanton and no candidate winning a majority in the , held on March 12, 2019; won by Kate GallegoSpecial mayoral election in Port Richey, Florida, attorney Scott Tremblay was elected mayor to replace former Vice Mayor Terrence Rowe who was arrested on conspiracy charges 20 days after being elevated to mayor following the arrest of former mayor Dale Massad for practicing medicine without a license.Special mayoral election in Scranton, Pennsylvania, following the resignation of mayor Bill Courtright, who pleaded guilty to federal corruption charges; won by Independent Paige Cognetti, who became the first female mayor of the city. During 2019, voters in several cities initiated recall elections against incumbent mayors. Mayors were successfully recalled in Wickenburg, Arizona; Brighton, Colorado; Bovill and Dalton Gardens, Idaho; Albion, Michigan; York, Nebraska; Metolius, Oregon; and Rio Bravo, Texas. Mayors in Elk River, Kooskia, and Sugar City, Idaho, and in Arnegard and Tower City, North Dakota, were retained in office. In Fall River, Massachusetts, voters successfully recalled Mayor Jasiel Correia and re-elected him in the same election. Correia faced recall after being charged with wire fraud and filing false tax returns in 2018. Five candidates, including Correia, qualified to run in the event of a successful recall, and a plurality of voters voted for Correia. In September, Correia was charged with extorting cannabis dispensaries looking to do business in the city; the city council vote to remove him from office, but Correia rejected their authority to do so. Correia stood for re-election to a third term, coming in second during the September 17 preliminary election. On October 15, 2019, Correia suspended his campaign, and, ultimately, came in third, behind write-in votes with school board member Paul Coogan winning the election.Democrats took control of Columbus, Indiana, hometown of Vice President Mike Pence, for the first time since 1981.In the Delaware Valley, Democrats gained a majority on the Bucks County Board of Commissioners for the first time since 1983, gained a majority on the Delaware County Council for the first time since the Civil War, and gained a majority on the Chester County Board of Commissioners for the first time in the party's history.In Denver, voters narrowly approved a citizen-initiated ordinance to effectively decriminalize psilocybin mushrooms for personal use and possession by adults. The city's voters also defeated an initiative to overturn Denver's . In the June runoff election, voters passed an ordinance barring city officials from spending tax money on future Olympic bids without first seeking voter approval. In the November general election, Denver voters approved the establishment of a Department of Transportation & Infrastructure for the city.Voters in East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana, voted to incorporate part of the parish as a new city, St. George. The incorporation effort began in 2013 as an effort to create a new public school district separate from East Baton Rouge Parish Public Schools.In a non-binding referendum, two-thirds of Georgetown University students voted to establish a semesterly fee to fund reparations for descendants of 272 enslaved people sold to pay the school's debts in 1838.Jersey City, New Jersey, voters approved strict regulations on short-term rentals, in a major blow to Airbnb.Kansas City, Missouri, voters overturned a 2018 city council decision to rename The Paseo after Martin Luther King Jr., restoring the parkway's prior name.New York City's Charter Revision Commission placed five questions on the 2019 ballot for voters to decide, including a proposal to adopt ranked choice voting for city elections. Ranked-choice voting was approved by 73.5% of voters.Voters in Oklahoma City approved a charter amendment allowing city council members to work for the state or federal government. The bill allows state or federal employees, such as school teachers or park rangers, to serve on the city council.In Parma, Ohio, voters upheld the city's ban on pit bull-type dogs by 14 votes.Phoenix, Arizona, voters rejected ballot initiatives to halt expansion of the Valley Metro Rail light rail system and to cap city spending to help pay down pension debt.In San Francisco, a ballot initiative backed by electronic cigarette manufacturer Juul to overturn the city's and flavored tobacco products failed overwhelmingly. San Juan County, Utah voters rejected Proposition 10, which would have looked to change the structure of the county government; the proposition was characterized by opponents as an effort to undermine the county's first elected Navajo-majority county commission.An attempt backed by e-commerce giant Amazon to install a more business-friendly city council in Seattle failed. Voters in Tucson, Arizona, rejected becoming a sanctuary city, which would have limited municipal cooperation with federal immigration law enforcement.. Several notable Native American tribal governments held elections for tribal leadership in 2019. Incumbents Tribal Chairman Don Gentry of the Klamath Tribes and Tribal Council Chief Beverly Kiohawiton Cook of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe were both re-elected to a third term. Seminole Tribe of Florida Tribal Council Chairman Marcellus Osceola Jr. was re-elected to a second term. Catawba Nation Chair Bill Harris, Comanche Nation Tribal Chairman William Nelson Sr., Fort Peck Tribes Chairman Floyd Azure, Nez Perce Tribe of Idaho Tribal Executive Committee Chairman Shannon Wheeler, Red Cliff Band of Lake Superior Chippewa Tribal Chair Richard Peterson, Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head Tribal Chairperson Cheryl Andrews-Maltais, and Yankton Sioux Tribe Tribal Chairman Robert Flying Hawk were also all re-elected. Richard Sneed won re-election to his first full-term as principal chief of the ; Sneed had been elevated to principal chief in 2017 following the impeachment of then Principal Chief Patrick Lambert. Mescalero Apache Tribe Tribal President Robert "Gabe" Aguilar, who was elevated to president when Tribal President Arthur "Butch" Blaze resigned for health reasons in October, was also re-elected to his first full term. Choctaw Nation incumbent Chief Gary Batton was unopposed in seeking a second term, and Chickasaw Nation Gov. Bill Anoatubby was unopposed in seeking a ninth consecutive four-year term. Former Cherokee Nation Secretary of State Chuck Hoskin Jr. was elected principal chief in a contentious election. Also in elections for open seats, Teri Gobin was elected chairwoman of the Tulalip Tribes and Reginald Atkinson was elected mayor of the Metlakatla Indian Community. Ned Norris Jr. was elected chairman of the Tohono O'odham Nation, a position he previously held for two terms, defeating incumbent Chairman Edward Manuel. Cyrus Ben defeated incumbent Tribal Chief Phyliss J. Anderson to lead the Mississippi Band of Choctaw Indians. Byron Nelson Jr. was elected tribal chairman of the Hoopa Valley Tribe, defeating incumbent Ryan Jackson. Manuel Heart, who previously served multiple terms as Ute Mountain Ute Tribe tribal chairman, defeated incumbent Harold Cuthair. Muscogee Nation: Incumbent Principal Chief James R. Floyd declined to run for a second term. Ten candidates ran to succeed Floyd with National Council Second Speaker David Hill and former National Council speaker Bim Stephen Bruner winning the most votes in the September 21 primary election; however, due to questions about the handling of absentee ballots, the primary election results were vacated. The November 2 rerun of the primary yielded the same results, and tribal voters will decide between Hill and Bruner in a December 14 general election. A special election triggered by the resignation of Jicarilla Apache Nation President Levi Pesata in February was won by Legislative Council member Darrell Paiz in a runoff, and Rynalea Whiteman Pena was elected president of the Northern Cheyenne Tribal Council in a special election following the resignation of prior president L. Jace Killsback. Beth Drost was elected as the first female Tribal Chair of the Grand Portage Band of Lake Superior Chippewa in a special election following the death of long-time Tribal Chair Norman Deschampe. Michael Fairbanks was elected Tribal Chairman of the White Earth Nation in Minnesota in a special election following the death of prior chairman Terry Tibbetts. Northern Arapaho Tribe voters rejected an effort to recall Chairman Lee Spoonhunter. Mashpee Wampanoag Tribal Council Chair Cedric Cromwell faced a September 15 recall election over questions about his management of tribal funds; however, the election was called off on September 12 due to questions about the recall petition process. The Hoopa Valley Tribe in California narrowly rejected an effort to open tribal land to cannabis cultivation. Spirit Lake Tribe voters in North Dakota approved alcohol sales at the Spirit Lake Casino & Resort, overturning a decades-old ban on alcohol sales on the reservation. Te-Moak Tribe of Western Shoshone voters rejected a ballot petition to replace a blood quantum requirement for tribal membership with a direct lineal descent system.. Two Republicans were charged with electoral fraud in Marion County, Ohio. The GOP candidate for Marion city auditor, Robert Landon, and Marion County Republican Party official John Matthews were charged with distributing phony sample ballots, a misdemeanor. Without providing any evidence, Republican incumbent Matt Bevin said there were "significant irregularities" in the vote count process for Kentucky governor. He refused to concede and asked for a recanvass, which took place on November 14. Democrat Andy Beshear won by only 5,000 votes, and some feared Bevin was trying to steal the election. However, the recanvass did not change the election outcome, and Bevin subsequently conceded.