'Marriage Story' is a 2019 American comedy-drama film written and directed by Noah Baumbach. The film stars Scarlett Johansson, Adam Driver, Laura Dern, Alan Alda, Ray Liotta, Azhy Robertson, Julie Hagerty, Matthew Shear and Merritt Wever, following a married couple going through a coast-to-coast divorce. The project was announced in November 2017, with the cast joining that month. Filming took place in Los Angeles and New York City between January and April of the following year. It had its world premiere at Venice Film Festival on August 29, 2019, and began a limited theatrical release on November 6, 2019, to be followed by digital streaming on December 6, 2019, by Netflix. The film received critical acclaim, particularly for Baumbach's screenplay and direction, as well as its acting , and musical score.. Charlie Barber is nominated for several awards. Charlie informs Nicole that he’s taken a one-year UCLA residency and will be living in Los Angeles full-time to be closer to Henry. Later, he discovers Henry reading Nicole’s list of things she likes about Charlie that she’d been embarrassed to read. Henry asks Charlie to read it aloud to him, and Charlie does so, becoming emotional as Nicole watches from afar. That night, Nicole offers to let Charlie take Henry home even though it’s her night with him. As Charlie walks out to his car carrying a sleeping Henry, Nicole runs out, ties Charlie’s shoe, and says goodbye.. The idea for the film first came to Baumbach in 2016, while in post-production on The Meyerowitz Stories. He began to do research on the subject, and met with three-time collaborator Driver to discuss the role. In November 2017, it was announced Driver, Scarlett Johansson, Laura Dern, Merritt Wever and Azhy Robertson had joined the cast of the film. David Heyman produced the film under his Heyday Films banner, and Netflix agreed to produce and distribute the film. In March 2018, Kyle Bornheimer joined the cast of the film. In June 2018, it was announced Ray Liotta had been cast in the film. Principal photography began on January 15, 2018 and lasted 47 days through April 2018, taking place in New York City and Los Angeles. Speaking of writing the film following his divorce from actress Jennifer Jason Leigh, as well as his parents' divorce, Baumbach said: Following the release of the film, Baumbach said, “I showed her the script and then I showed her the movie a little bit ago. She likes it a lot.”. Marriage Story had its world premiere at the Venice Film Festival on August 29, 2019. It also screened at the Telluride Film Festival on August 31, 2019. the Toronto International Film Festival on September 8, 2019, where it was first runner-up for the People's Choice Award. It also served as the Centerpiece selection at the New York Film Festival on October 4, 2019, and the BFI London Film Festival on October 6, 2019. It was released in a limited release on November 6, 2019 before releasing on Netflix on December 6, 2019..  Although Netflix does not publicly disclose theatrical gross of its films, IndieWire estimated Marriage Story grossed around $160,000 from five theaters in its opening weekend numbers would be disappointing" but "given the theaters and more limited seating, as well as awareness of imminent streaming access within the month" it was sufficient for Netflix. Playing at 16 theaters the following weekend the film made an estimated $140,000, and then $340,000 from 85 theaters in its third. Expanding to 130 theaters in its fourth weekend of release the film made $360,000, for a month-long running total of $1.2 million. Rotten Tomatoes reported that 97% of critics have given the film a positive review based on 205 reviews, with an average rating of 9.11/10. The website's critics consensus reads: "Observing a splintering union with compassion and expansive grace, the powerfully acted Marriage Story ranks among writer-director Noah Baumbach's best works." Metacritic assigned the film a weighted average score of 94 out of 100 based on 47 critics, indicating "universal acclaim". Varietys Owen Gleiberman wrote: "At once funny, scalding, and stirring, built around two bravura performances of incredible sharpness and humanity, it's the work of a major film artist, one who shows that he can capture life in all its emotional detail and complexity — and, in the process, make a piercing statement about how our society now works." Alonso Duralde of TheWrap praised the performances and Baumbach's screenplay, saying "One wonders if Baumbach left references to Kramer vs. Kramer or Two for the Road on the cutting-room floor, but either way, Marriage Story is a film that deserves to be mentioned in their company. It's devastating, essential, and destined to be remembered long after this awards cycle ends." Time Magazine's annual best performances of the year list by Stephanie Zacharek listed Driver as the third best performance of 2019.