The sixth season of the American television series The Flash, which is based on the DC Comics character Barry Allen / Flash, premiered on The CW on October 8, 2019, and consist of 22 episodes. The season follows Barry, a crime scene investigator with superhuman speed who fights criminals, including others who have also gained superhuman abilities. It is set in the Arrowverse, sharing continuity with the other television series of the universe, and is a spin-off of Arrow. The season is produced by Berlanti Productions, Warner Bros. Television, and DC Entertainment, with Eric Wallace serving as showrunner. The season was ordered in January 2019, and filming began that July. Grant Gustin stars as Barry, with principal cast members Candice Patton, Danielle Panabaker, Carlos Valdes, Hartley Sawyer, Danielle Nicolet, Tom Cavanagh, and Jesse L. Martin also returning from previous seasons, and are joined by LaMonica Garrett. Efrat Dor will appear as a series regular in the second half of the season.. * Grant Gustin as Barry Allen / Flash Candice Patton as Iris West-Allen Danielle Panabaker as Caitlin Snow / Killer Frost Carlos Valdes as Cisco Ramon Hartley Sawyer as Ralph Dibny / Elongated Man Danielle Nicolet as Cecile Horton LaMonica Garrett as Mar Novu / Monitor Tom Cavanagh as Nash Wells Jesse L. Martin as Joe West Efrat Dor as Eva McCulloch Sendhil Ramamurthy as Ramsey Rosso / Bloodwork Victoria Park as Kamilla Hwang Kayla Compton as Allegra Garcia Natalie Dreyfuss as Sue Dearbon.  The series was renewed for a sixth season by The CW on January 31, 2019. In March 2019, it was announced that Eric Wallace would replace Todd Helbing as showrunner for the season. The season will be split in two-halves each with their own self-contained "Big Bad" story. Main cast members Grant Gustin, Candice Patton, Danielle Panabaker, Carlos Valdes, Hartley Sawyer, Danielle Nicolet and Jesse L. Martin return as Barry Allen / Flash, Iris West, Caitlin Snow / Killer Frost, Cisco Ramon, Ralph Dibny, Cecile Horton, and Joe West. Tom Cavanagh also returns as a regular, portraying Nash Wells, yet another doppelgänger of his character Harrison Wells. Cavanagh will also portray Pariah, and return as Eobard Thawne / Reverse Flash. Valdes also portrayed Cisco's Earth-19 doppelganger "Echo" in the episode "Kiss Kiss Breach Breach". Sendhil Ramamurthy was cast in a recurring role as Ramsey Rosso / Bloodwork, the "Big Bad" of the season's first half. Efrat Dor is set to appear as a series regular in the second half of the season as Eva McCulloch. The season introduces a new Killer Frost costume which has a more vibrant blue color scheme than the older costume, exposes the shoulders and features a chest emblem shaped like an ice crystal. Production for the season began on July 2, 2019, in Vancouver, British Columbia, and is expected to conclude on April 6, 2020. At the end of the 2018 Arrowverse crossover "Elseworlds", the follow-up crossover was revealed to be "Crisis on Infinite Earths" based on the comic book of the same name. The crossover will take place over five episodes–three in December 2019 and two in January 2020..  The review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes reported a 96% approval rating for the sixth season with an average rating of 8.11/10, based on 30 reviews.