Andrew Yang in the form of $1,000 monthly for every American adult. Yang believes that UBI is a necessary response to the rapid development of automation, which is increasingly leading to workforce challenges, and that job displacement by automation is what led to Donald Trump's election in 2016. The other two central elements of his platform are "" and "". He has clarified that his version of Medicare for All allows private insurance to remain an option.. Yang was born on January 13, 1975, in Schenectady, New York. His parents emigrated from Taiwan to the U.S. in the 1960s. They met while they were both in graduate school at the University of California, Berkeley. His father graduated with a Ph.D. in physics and worked in the research labs of IBM and General Electric, generating over 69 patents in his career. His mother graduated with a master's degree in statistics. She became a systems administrator at a local university, and later became an artist. Yang has an older brother, Lawrence, who is a psychology professor at New York University. Yang's father, uncle, and cousin also became professors. Yang's family settled in Westchester County, New York, where Yang grew up. According to The Washington Post, Yang was one of few Asian kids in his town. He played Dungeons & Dragons, piano, and tennis. Yang later described being bullied and called racial slurs by classmates while attending public school, partially because he was one of the smaller kids in his class after skipping a grade. In The War on Normal People , he wrote, "Perhaps as a result, I've always taken pride in relating to the underdog or little guy or gal". When Yang was 12 years old, he scored a 1220 out of 1600 on the SAT, qualifying him to attend the Center for Talented Youth—a summer program for gifted kids run by Johns Hopkins University—which he attended for the next five summers. Yang later attended Phillips Exeter Academy, an elite boarding school in New Hampshire. He made the U.S. national debate team and competed at the world championships in London. Yang graduated from Exeter in 1992 and went on to attend Brown University, where he majored in economics and political science and graduated in 1996. He then attended Columbia Law School, earning a Juris Doctor in 1999..  After graduating from law school, Yang began his career as a corporate attorney at Davis Polk & Wardwell in New York City. Five months later, he left the firm in February 2000 to join his office mate in launching Stargiving, a website for celebrity-affiliated philanthropic fundraising. The startup had some initial success, but folded in 2002 as a result of the end of the dot-com bubble. Yang became involved in other ventures, including a party-organizing business. From 2002 to 2005, he served as the vice president of a healthcare startup. After working in the healthcare industry for four years, Yang left MMF Systems to join his friend Zeke Vanderhoek at a small test preparation company, Manhattan Prep. In an appearance on the podcast Freakonomics, Yang said he "personally taught the analyst classes at McKinsey, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, and Morgan Stanley" during the 2008 financial crisis. In 2006, Vanderhoek asked Yang to take over as CEO. While Yang was CEO, the company primarily provided GMAT test preparation. It expanded from five to 69 locations and was acquired by Kaplan, Inc. in December 2009. Yang resigned as the company's president in early 2012. In September 2019 testimony before the New York City Commission on Gender Equity, former employee Kimberly Watkins testified that Yang had fired her because he felt that she would not work as hard after getting married. Yang has denied the allegations, saying, "Kimberly Watkins' facts about her break from Manhattan Prep are inaccurate. During my more than a decade as CEO, I have worked with many women, married and otherwise, and value their work and dedication as important to the success of any institution". In an appearance on The View, Yang said, "I've had so many phenomenal women leaders that have elevated me and my organizations at every phase of my career, and if I was that kind of person I would never have had any success". Following the acquisition of Manhattan Prep in late 2009, Yang began to work on creating a new nonprofit fellowship program, Venture for America argues that the top universities in the country cherry-pick the smartest kids out of small towns and funnel them into the same corporate jobs in the same big cities. VFA's goal is to help distribute that talent around the country and incentivize entrepreneurship for economic growth. After 2011 VFA grew, reaching a $6 million annual operating budget in 2017, and operating in about 20 U.S. cities, adding Kansas City, Atlanta, Baltimore, Birmingham, Charlotte, Cleveland, Columbus, Denver, Miami, Nashville, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, San Antonio, and St. Louis. VFA began running a "startup accelerator" in Detroit and launched a seed fund and an investment fund for fellows. Generation Startup, a documentary film about six startups in Detroit launched through the VFA program, was released in 2016. It was co-directed by Cynthia Wade and Cheryl Miller Houser. In March 2017, Yang stepped down from his position as CEO of VFA. Media outlets have provided several estimates of Yang's net worth: $1 million according to Forbes, between $834,000 and $2.4 million according to The Wall Street Journal, and between $3 million and $4 million according to Newsweek.. On November 6, 2017, Yang filed with the Federal Election Commission money. In the 72 hours after the third debate, Yang's campaign raised $1 million, suggesting that it "is on track to raise significantly more in the third quarter" than in the second quarter, according to Politico. In the third quarter, Yang's campaign raised $10 million, representing a 257% quarterly increase—the largest growth rate among the fundraising numbers of all candidates. The average donation was around $30, and 99% of the donations were $200 or less. As of June 28, 2019, Yang had received donations from more than 130,000 individual donors in at least 20 U.S. states, thereby meeting at least one of the requirements to be included in the first and second debates for Democratic presidential primary candidates, as well as the donor requirement for the third and fourth debates. The Democratic National Committee randomly determined that Yang would participate in the second night of the first debate, which took place in Miami on June 27. During the debate, Yang was asked only two questions and allowed to speak for two minutes and 56 seconds, the least time of any candidate. He claimed that his microphone malfunctioned, initially suggesting to the debate moderators that technical difficulties might have occurred. An NBC spokesperson said, "At no point during the debate was any candidate's microphone turned off or muted", but Yang and his supporters have provided video evidence they claim shows Yang speaking up but not being heard. During the second debate in Detroit on July 31, Yang answered questions on topics including civil rights, healthcare, immigration, party strategy, climate, and the economy. He spoke for a total of 8.7 minutes, which was again the least of any candidate on either night. He was the only second-night candidate who did not spend any time in "back-and-forths" with other candidates. Yang drew attention for his decision to not wear a necktie in either debate. In his closing statement, Yang called out the media and the debate format, saying: In a September interview with Politico, Yang further clarified his stance on candidates attacking each other at the debates. According to Yang, there "is this sense of manufactured outrage and rehearsed attack lines", and as "a proxy for the American public", he finds "the process to be very false and somewhat misdirected". "It's not left, it's not right, it's forward" has been compared to a similar slogan used by the Green Party of Canada. On August 8, Yang received 2% support in the fourth qualifying poll, thus meeting both qualification criteria for the third debate. The third debate was held in Houston on September 12. In his opening statement, Yang promised to "give a Freedom Dividend of $1000 a month for an entire year to 10 American families". During the debate, he addressed topics including healthcare, immigration, foreign relations, the War on Terror, corporate lobbying, and education and charter schools. Yang spoke for a total of 7 minutes 54 seconds, which was again the least time of any candidate. Some campaign-finance experts have questioned using campaign funds for payments such as Yang promised in his opening statement, on the grounds that federal law bars personal use of campaign funds. But Yang has said that he consulted lawyers about the proposal and that "he would not gain the same scrutiny if he gave money to a media company or consultants" instead of directly to Americans. On September 12, Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian announced on Twitter his support for Yang's proposal and offered to finance it. On September 13, tech entrepreneur Justin Sun pledged to give $1.2 million to 100 Americans in 2020, saying that he wanted "Yang to help him select the recipients". In the 72 hours after the debate, Yang's campaign raised $1 million and collected "more than 450,000 email addresses from people who entered the online raffle", of which over 90% were new email addresses. The fourth debate was held on October 15 in Westerville, Ohio. During the debate, Yang discussed topics including impeachment, automation, the economy, taxation, foreign policy, the opioid crisis, big tech, and personal data as a property right, speaking for 8 minutes and 32 seconds, the fourth-least time of any of the 12 candidates. He proposed decriminalizing opioids, a stance candidate Beto O'Rourke agreed with. Candidates Julian Castro and Tulsi Gabbard said Yang's Freedom Dividend policy "was a good idea, and something they would consider if elected president", while candidate Cory Booker argued that a $15 minimum wage was superior to UBI. Yang also spoke about the potential impeachment inquiry against Donald Trump, saying he supports impeachment, but that "we should not have illusions that impeaching Donald Trump will, one, be successful or, two, erase the problems that got him elected in 2016." Vox called UBI one of the winners of the debate, saying that Yang's campaign "has already elevated the idea in policy discourse". CNN's Chris Cillizza called Yang one of the winners of the debate, writing that he had had a "remarkable rise in this race" and "is already having a significant impact on the conversation within the Democratic Party". The New York Post also labeled Yang a winner, writing that he "knows how to break through by speaking like a regular person". On Twitter, Meghan McCain praised Yang for starting the conversation on automation, calling it "incredibly impressive". The fifth debate was held on November 20. Yang spoke for a total of 6 minutes 43 seconds, the least time of any candidate. He discussed topics including artificial intelligence, foreign policy, child care, and combating white supremacy. Critics of the debate noted that it took over 30 minutes for the moderators to let him speak. Yang's short total speaking time and the long period of time before he was brought in sparked accusations from critics, including fellow candidate Tulsi Gabbard, that debate hosts MSNBC and The Washington Post suppressed Yang's speaking time. The incident sparked protests outside of the debate studio from Yang supporters, who chanted "MSNBC, hands off our democracy!". During the debate, Yang said that climate change and artificial intelligence were among his top priorities. On Twitter, Glenn Greenwald said: "Yang's answer about the actual threats of the 21st century was way too smart, thoughtful and substantive for cable news and presidential political generally. Few things will affect humanity more than Artificial Intelligence in this century." CNN's Chris Cillizza listed Yang as among the debate's winners, saying that he "came across as, by far, the most relatable candidate on the stage". Chris Churchill of Times Union wrote: "The other candidates blabbered on about millionaires and billionaires or the bad man in the White House while Yang, bless his heart, repeatedly turned the focus to families and children." Dana Brownlee of Forbes called Yang's closing statement a "Mic Drop Performance" and "refreshing and riveting". On multiple occasions, Yang's campaign and supporters have criticized media outlets, such as MSNBC and CNN, for their coverage of Yang. Incidents include cases of news outlets excluding Yang from lists of 2020 Democratic candidates. On August 29, 2019, Yang supporters prompted the hashtag #YangMediaBlackout to trend on Twitter after a CNN infographic displaying the results of a poll included candidate Beto O'Rourke but not Yang, even though the poll showed Yang polling three times higher than O'Rourke. Yang supporters also criticized media outlets for providing disproportionately low coverage of Yang, pointing out that according to The New York Times, Yang has received some of the least coverage in cable news among the candidates, even though he was polling better than most of the field. In early September, Yang's lack of media coverage was reported by several media outlets, including CNN. Axios noted that while Yang polled in the top six of the Democratic primary and was "getting plenty of online attention", he was "being treated by the media like a bottom-tier candidate". Krystal Ball of The Hill observed that there was "a persistent pattern of ignoring Yang's candidacy" among media outlets such as CNN. She further noted that Scott Santens, one of Yang's supporters, "has been keeping track of the apparent slights via Twitter". On October 23, 2019, Santens released an article compiling the mainstream media's exclusions of Yang. In November 2019, Yang's campaign manager dismissed an apology by MSNBC for leaving Yang off an infographic, which according to Santens's compilation was the 15th time in the campaign cycle MSNBC or its related networks had wrongfully excluded Yang. On November 23, 2019, following the MSNBC-hosted November debate in which Yang received the least speaking time and was not called upon for the first 30 minutes of the two-hour debate, Yang publicly rejected a request to appear on MSNBC unless the network would "apologize on air, discuss and include our campaign consistent with our polling, and allow surrogates from our campaign as they do other candidates. A Business Insider analysis found that Yang received significantly less speaking time at debates than would be expected given his polling numbers.. In 2012, Yang was called a "Champion of Change" by the Obama administration. In 2015, he was again acknowledged by the Obama administration as a "Presidential Ambassador for Global Entrepreneurship", alongside Daymond John, Brian Chesky, Steve Case, Tory Burch, and several others.. As of 2018, Yang lives in New York City with his wife Evelyn and two sons. He has spoken about his older son being autistic, saying, "I'm very proud of my son and anyone who has someone on the spectrum in their family feels the exact same way." Yang attends the Reformed Church of New Paltz with his family and has identified Mark E. Mast as their pastor. He identifies as spiritual but not religious. In an interview with The Hill, Yang said that Theodore Roosevelt is his favorite president and that he is the godfather of Roosevelt's great-granddaughter. His favorite anime is Akira.