Myles Lorenz Garrett . He played college football at Texas A&M and was drafted by the Browns first overall in the 2017 NFL Draft. Garrett was the highest-rated defensive player ever recruited by Texas A&M, where he became a two-time All-American while playing for the Aggies, racking up numerous other awards for his stellar defensive play. Upon joining the Browns, his rookie season was limited due to injuries, but Garrett emerged after the latter half of that year and has become one of the premier edge rushers in the NFL. Garrett's third season with the team was cut short after the NFL indefinitely suspended him on November 15, 2019 for a fight occurring in a game against the Pittsburgh Steelers.. Garrett attended Martin High School in Arlington, Texas, where he was a letterman in football, basketball, and track. In football, he had 19.5 sacks as a senior. Garrett was rated as a five-star recruit by the Rivals.com recruiting network and was ranked as the second best overall player in his class. He committed to play college football at Texas A&M University in October 2013. In track & field, he was a state qualifier in the throwing events, with top-throws of 16.01 meters in the shot put and 50.84 meters in the discus throw..  Garrett came to Texas A&M as the #2 overall prospect in the nation, and the highest-rated defensive player the Aggies had ever signed. As a true freshman in 2014, Garrett broke Texas A&M's freshman sack record of 5.5 in only six games. In only nine games, he broke Jadeveon Clowney's SEC freshman sack record of eight. Garrett finished the season with 11.5 sacks , 15.0 tackles for loss, 10 quarterback hurries, two forced fumbles, and a pass breakup. The season resulted in Garrett earning a Unanimous Consensus All-American designation by being voted to the first-team by the Walter Camp Football Foundation, the Football Writers Association of America, the American Football Coaches Association, The Sporting News, the Associated Press, Fox Sports, Pro Football Focus, and SB Nation. On December 31, 2016, Garrett officially declared his intentions to enter the 2017 NFL Draft.. On December 31, 2016, Garrett announced his decision to forgo his remaining eligibility and enter the 2017 NFL Draft. He was projected to be a top ten selection and was ranked No. 1 on ESPN analyst Mel Kiper Jr.’s big board. Garrett attended the NFL Scouting Combine in Indianapolis and completed the majority of combine drills, but opted to skip the three-cone drill and short shuttle. Garrett solidified his position as a top ten pick with an impressive combine performance. His 41” vertical jump was the top performance of all defensive linemen and he also finished with the second best performance in the bench press and broad jump. Garrett also had the third fastest 40-yard dash of all defensive linemen at the combine, which highly impressed scouts due to his size. On March 30, 2017, Garrett attended Texas A&M's Pro Day and chose to perform the 40-yard dash , seven sacks, one pass defensed, and one fumble recovery during his rookie season. Due to injury he only played 11 of 16 games, but still finished first on the team in sacks. Garrett was named a defensive captain for the 2018 season. In the 2018 season, Garrett started all 16 games and recorded 13.5 sacks, 44 combined tackles, 12 tackles-for-loss, 29 quarterback hits, three passes defensed, and three forced fumbles. His 13.5 sacks ranked sixth in the NFL that year. He was ranked 49th by his fellow players on the NFL Top 100 Players of 2019. In Week 1 against the Tennessee Titans, Garrett sacked Marcus Mariota twice in the 13–43 loss. During Monday Night Football against the New York Jets in Week 2, Garrett finished with three sacks, but also committed two roughing the passer penalties as the Browns won 23–3. On September 28, Garrett was fined a combined $52,639 for three fines, a face mask hit on Delanie Walker as well as the two roughing the passer fouls on Trevor Siemian. In week 6 against the Seattle Seahawks, Garrett sacked Russell Wilson twice in the 32–28 loss. During the Browns' November 14 game against the Pittsburgh Steelers, with eight seconds left in the game, Garrett pulled Steelers quarterback Mason Rudolph to the ground and held him there after the latter threw a screen pass to running back Trey Edmunds. While Garrett had him wrapped up on the ground, Rudolph tugged at Garrett's helmet. Getting up, Garrett pulled on Rudolph's facemask, eventually removing his helmet as Steelers offensive linemen Maurkice Pouncey and David DeCastro tried to push Garrett away. Rudolph then charged at Garrett and Garrett swung Rudolph's helmet at Rudolph, striking him in the head with the underside of the helmet. A fight ensued that resulted in Garrett, Pouncey and Browns defensive tackle Larry Ogunjobi being ejected; Pouncey both punched and kicked Garrett after the strike, while Ogunjobi pushed a helmetless Rudolph to the ground as he stood watching the fight. Garrett's actions were called into question by his own head coach and quarterback in interviews conducted immediately after the game. Browns quarterback Baker Mayfield called Garrett's action "inexcusable", while Browns head coach Freddie Kitchens expressed embarrassment. Garrett later apologized for his actions, which he described as "foolish" and "out of character," while at the same time thanking those players who "backed him up." The next day, the NFL suspended Garrett indefinitely, and at minimum miss the remainder of the 2019 regular season and postseason. He was also fined $45,623. Garrett's appeal failed on November 20; he claimed, without evidence, that Rudolph directed a racial slur at him. He will have to meet with officials from the office of Commissioner Roger Goodell in order to be reinstated for the 2020 season. Given that he will miss at least the remainder of the 2019 season, Garrett's suspension will be at least the second-longest suspension for on-field misconduct in NFL history, and the longest for a single in-game incident. The only player to be suspended for a longer period was Oakland Raiders linebacker Vontaze Burfict, who was suspended for the final 12 games of the 2019 season due to a history of violations of player safety rules.. Garrett's brother, Sean Williams, was a standout basketball player for Boston College and was selected number 17 in the first round of the 2007 NBA draft by the New Jersey Nets. He then played in the NBA from 2007 to 2012. Brea Garrett, his older sister, was a track and field athlete at Texas A&M. She won the 2014 NCAA title in the 20-pound weight throw, and is the first weight throw champion in Aggie history. During the 2015 offseason, Garrett decided to stop using his social media account on Twitter, citing: "There's a lot of negativity on there I don’t need in my life. I felt like If I want to move forward as a person and as a football player, I don’t need other people's opinions and other things to stick with me or be in my mind when I have other things to keep doing." Garrett later resumed using Twitter regularly. On April 30, 2017, two days after the 2017 NFL Draft, Garrett, along with fellow first rounders Jabrill Peppers and David Njoku, were at Progressive Field, and threw out a ceremonial first pitch.