'Marjaavaan' is a 2019 Indian Hindi-language romantic action film directed by Milap Zaveri and starring Riteish Deshmukh, Sidharth Malhotra, Tara Sutaria and Rakul Preet Singh in the lead roles. The co-producer Bhushan Kumar described the film as “a violent, dramatic love story". The film was supposed to release on 2 October 2019, but got delayed, and it was theatrically released in India on 15 November 2019.. Raghu is a loyal goon to the local thug Narayan Anna who controls the water mafia in Mumbai. His father's dependence on Raghu doesn't sit well with Vishnu, whose complexes arise from more than just his short stature, as he is only three feet tall. When Raghu falls for Zoya, a mute musically-inclined Kashmiri girl who teaches children music, Vishnu jumps at the opportunity to use it to discredit his father's most favorite goon. Vishnu kidnaps Gaitonde and tells a kid Zoya had selected for her music festival to shoot him. Zoya sees this and flees but Vishnu is already alerted of her presence. Vishnu tells his father that there was an eyewitness so Anna orders Raghu to kill Zoya, not knowing that Raghu loves her. Raghu finds Zoya and tries to run away from Vishnu and his father but Vishnu catches them and orders Raghu, Zoya, and all the kids to be killed. Vishnu's father tells Raghu he and the kids will be safe if he kills only Zoya, as she is the eyewitness to Gaitonde's murder. Zoya tells Raghu to kill her so that he and the kids remain safe. Raghu shoots, and Zoya dies in his arms. The police arrest a traumatized Raghu for Zoya's murder. In jail, Raghu becomes depressed and broken. Vishnu tries to get Raghu killed in jail, knowing if he is released, he will take revenge. However, Raghu beats up the goons Vishnu hired. Vishnu then cuts off Raghu's friend Mazar's leg because Mazar kicked him. When Vishnu's father tells him that Raghu will be sentenced to life, Vishnu helps Raghu get out by bribing the proofs because when Raghu comes out, he will kill him. When Raghu is released, Vishnu sees that Raghu is not the same after Zoya's death. His father tells him that Raghu died the day he killed Zoya. Vishnu tries various ways to bring Raghu back to his old ways but fails. Vishnu's father catches him and warns him against this but Vishnu angrily kills his father and sends goons to kill Raghu. However, Raghu kills them all and buries them. He visits Zoya's grave and vows revenge on Vishnu; he is joined by his friends in this mission. On the day of Dussera, when Vishnu comes to burn Ravana's idol, Raghu arrives and starts beating all the goons. Vishnu pierces an arrow into Raghu's heart but Raghu burns him. While dying, Raghu sees Zoya's soul and dies peacefully, surrounded by friends and family. The police arrive and the inspector tells the ACP that Raghu died. The ACP replies that Raghu returned to his life, which was with Zoya.. *Riteish Deshmukh as VishnuSidharth Malhotra as RaghuTara Sutaria as ZoyaRakul Preet Singh as AarzooNassar as Narayan AnnaShaad Randhawa as MazharRavi Kishan as ACP YadavOm Kanojiya as TimepassAnant Jog as GaitondeAmit Mehra as Gaitonde's sonVarinder Singh Ghuman as RakkaBikramjeet KanwarpalGodaan Kumar as shafiUday Nene as GopiAlina Kazi as PayalSwati Seth as Zoya’s friendNora Fatehi .  Principal photography of the film began on 7 December 2018 with Malhotra sharing his picture on his official Instagram account. The second schedule is set to roll in from mid-January and will end by March. Sidharth Malhotra is shooting with a dozen goons and has switched to action mode. "The stunt team wanted to shoot with a body double because Sidharth's back and shoulder would be on fire but he was adamant on doing the scene himself to make it look authentic and stay true to his character". Siddharth wrapped up his portion except for songs on 15 March 2019. He announced the news by posting a picture with crews with a heartfelt message. In November 2019, Deshmukh revealed that Shah Rukh Khan had helped the production team with some VFX shots for the former's role as a dwarf.. The official poster of the film was shared by Sidharth Malhotra on 30 October 2018, announcing the release date of 8 November 2019. On 5 August 2019, Malhotra announced that the film is delayed to avoid the clash with Siddharth Anand's big budget film War starring Tiger Shroff and Hrithik Roshan, but the release date was not confirmed. On 23 August 2019, the first poster was unveiled by Malhotra, giving the new release date of 8 November 2019. On 3 September, a second poster was unveiled, in which it was shown that the release date of the film is advanced to 8 November. on 10 October, he announced new release date of film is 15 November 2019. The official trailer of the film was launched on 26 September 2019. The official second trailer of the film was launched on 1 November 2019. The film was released on 15 November 2019 after the release date was advanced by a week to accommodate the release of Bala.. Khaleej Times rated the film 1.5 stars out of 5 and said, "'Marjaavan' falls several shades short of a proper Bollywood masala entertainer that it aspires to in spite of having all the ingredients for it. The weak and cliched plotline along with heavy-duty dialogues that should have impressed but end up sounding hollow is only part of the problem." The Times of India rated the film 2.5 stars out of 5 and reviewed, "Marjaavaan attempts to check all the boxes for an emotional action rollercoaster, but its dated execution doesn’t quite make the kill." Mumbai Mirror rated the film 2 on 5 stars and said, "This Sidharth Malthotra, Riteish Deshmukh and Tara Sutaria-starrer is a tedious watch." Scroll.in rated the film 2 out of 5 stars and wrote, "A 1980s Bollywood flashback with characters who are cardboard cutouts." Marjaavaans opening day domestic collection was 7.03 crore. On the second day, the film collected 7.21 crore. On the third day, the film collected 10.18 crore, taking total opening weekend collection to 24.42 crore. , with a gross of 55.29 crore in India and 6.04 crore overseas, the film has a worldwide gross collection of 61.33 crore.. This music of film is composed by Tanishk Bagchi, Meet Bros, Payal Dev, Yo Yo Honey Singh, Aditya Dev and Sanjoy Chowdhury with lyrics written by Kumaar, Tanishk Bagchi, Kunaal Vermaa, Manoj Muntashir, A. M. Turaz, Rashmi Virag, Yo Yo Honey Singh, Dope Leo and Mujtaba Aziz Naza. The second song "Ek Toh Kum Zindagani" is a remake of the song "Pyar Do Pyar Lo" from the film Janbaaz, being the second remake of the song after Anees Bazmee's Thank You, where it was composed by Pritam. The fourth song Haiya Ho, is a remake of "Chahe Meri Jaan Tu Le Le", a song from Dayavan. . There song "Peeyu Datt Ke", which stars Nushrat Bharucha was removed from the final but was released later on 2 December 2019 and is a part of the soundtrack.