Python is an interpreted, high-level, general-purpose programming language. Created by Guido van Rossum and first released in 1991, Python's design philosophy emphasizes code readability with its notable use of significant whitespace. Its language constructs and object-oriented approach aim to help programmers write clear, logical code for small and large-scale projects. Python is dynamically typed and garbage-collected. It supports multiple programming paradigms, including procedural, object-oriented, and functional programming. Python is often described as a "batteries included" language due to its comprehensive standard library. Python was conceived in the late 1980s as a successor to the ABC language. Python&nbsp;2.0, released in 2000, introduced features like list comprehensions and a garbage collection system capable of collecting reference cycles. Python&nbsp;3.0, released in 2008, was a major revision of the language that is not completely backward-compatible, and much Python&nbsp;2 code does not run unmodified on Python&nbsp;3. The Python&nbsp;2 language, i.e. Python 2.7.x, is "sunsetting" on January 1, 2020 , and the Python team of volunteers will not fix security issues, or improve it in other ways after that date. With the end-of-life, only Python&nbsp;3.5.x and later will be supported. Python interpreters are available for many operating systems. A global community of programmers develops and maintains CPython, an open source reference implementation. A non-profit organization, the Python Software Foundation, manages and directs resources for Python and CPython development.. Python was conceived in the late 1980s by Guido van Rossum at Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica the translation of Python 2 code to Python 3. Python 2.7's end-of-life date was initially set at 2015 then postponed to 2020 out of concern that a large body of existing code could not easily be forward-ported to Python 3.. Python is a multi-paradigm programming language. Object-oriented programming and structured programming are fully supported, and many of its features support functional programming and aspect-oriented programming instead of the standard foo and bar. A common neologism in the Python community is pythonic, which can have a wide range of meanings related to program style. To say that code is pythonic is to say that it uses Python idioms well, that it is natural or shows fluency in the language, that it conforms with Python's minimalist philosophy and emphasis on readability. In contrast, code that is difficult to understand or reads like a rough transcription from another programming language is called unpythonic. Users and admirers of Python, especially those considered knowledgeable or experienced, are often referred to as Pythonistas.. Python is meant to be an easily readable language. Its formatting is visually uncluttered, and it often uses English keywords where other languages use punctuation. Unlike many other languages, it does not use curly brackets to delimit blocks, and semicolons after statements are optional. It has fewer syntactic exceptions and special cases than C or Pascal. Python uses whitespace indentation, rather than curly brackets or keywords, to delimit blocks. An increase in indentation comes after certain statements; a decrease in indentation signifies the end of the current block. Thus, the program's visual structure accurately represents the program's semantic structure. This feature is sometimes termed the off-side rule, which some other languages share, but in most languages indentation doesn't have any semantic meaning. Python's statements include provides arbitrary precision for rational numbers. Due to Python's extensive mathematics library, and the third-party library NumPy that further extends the native capabilities, it is frequently used as a scientific scripting language to aid in problems such as numerical data processing and manipulation.. Hello world program: print . Python's large standard library, commonly cited as one of its greatest strengths, provides tools suited to many tasks. For Internet-facing applications, many standard formats and protocols such as MIME and HTTP are supported. It includes modules for creating graphical user interfaces, connecting to relational databases, generating pseudorandom numbers, arithmetic with arbitrary-precision decimals, manipulating regular expressions, and unit testing. Some parts of the standard library are covered by specifications , the official repository for third-party Python software, contains over 200,000 packages with a wide range of functionality, including: Graphical user interfaces Web frameworks Multimedia Databases Networking Test frameworks Automation Web scraping Documentation System administration Scientific computing Text processing Image processing Machine learning Data analytics. Most Python implementations ; PythonAnywhere, a browser-based IDE and hosting environment; and Canopy IDE, a commercial Python IDE emphasizing scientific computing.. CPython is the reference implementation of Python. It is written in C, meeting the C89 standard with several select C99 features. It compiles Python programs into an intermediate bytecode which is then executed by its virtual machine. CPython is distributed with a large standard library written in a mixture of C and native Python. It is available for many platforms, including Windows and most modern Unix-like systems. Platform portability was one of its earliest priorities. PyPy is a fast, compliant interpreter of Python 2.7 and 3.5. Its just-in-time compiler brings a significant speed improvement over CPython. Stackless Python is a significant fork of CPython that implements microthreads; it does not use the C memory stack, thus allowing massively concurrent programs. PyPy also has a stackless version. MicroPython and CircuitPython are Python 3 variants optimized for microcontrollers. This includes Lego Mindstorms EV3. RustPython is a Python 3 interpreter written in Rust. Other just-in-time Python compilers have been developed, but are now unsupported: Google began a project named Unladen Swallow in 2009, with the aim of speeding up the Python interpreter five-fold by using the LLVM, and of improving its multithreading ability to scale to thousands of cores. Psyco is a just-in-time specialising compiler that integrates with CPython and transforms bytecode to machine code at runtime. The emitted code is specialized for certain data types and is faster than standard Python code. In 2005, Nokia released a Python interpreter for the Series 60 mobile phones named PyS60. It includes many of the modules from the CPython implementations and some additional modules to integrate with the Symbian operating system. The project has been kept up-to-date to run on all variants of the S60 platform, and several third-party modules are available. The Nokia N900 also supports Python with GTK widget libraries, enabling programs to be written and run on the target device. There are several compilers to high-level object languages, with either unrestricted Python, a restricted subset of Python, or a language similar to Python as the source language: Jython compiles into Java byte code, which can then be executed by every Java virtual machine implementation. This also enables the use of Java class library functions from the Python program. IronPython follows a similar approach in order to run Python programs on the .NET Common Language Runtime. The RPython language can be compiled to C, Java bytecode, or Common Intermediate Language, and is used to build the PyPy interpreter of Python. Pyjs compiles Python to JavaScript. Cython compiles Python to C and C++. Numba uses LLVM to compile Python to machine code. Pythran compiles Python to C++. Somewhat dated Pyrex workload was presented at EuroSciPy '13.. Python's development is conducted largely through the Python Enhancement Proposal , the official repository of third-party Python libraries. The major academic conference on Python is PyCon. There are also special Python mentoring programmes, such as Pyladies.. Python's name is derived from the British comedy group Monty Python, whom Python creator Guido van Rossum enjoyed while developing the language. Monty Python references appear frequently in Python code and culture; for example, the metasyntactic variables often used in Python literature are spam and eggs instead of the traditional foo and bar. The official Python documentation also contains various references to Monty Python routines. The prefix Py- is used to show that something is related to Python. Examples of the use of this prefix in names of Python applications or libraries include Pygame, a binding of SDL to Python ; PyQt and PyGTK, which bind Qt and GTK to Python respectively; and PyPy, a Python implementation originally written in Python.. Python API documentation generators include: Sphinx Epydoc HeaderDoc pydoc. Since 2003, Python has consistently ranked in the top ten most popular programming languages in the TIOBE Programming Community Index where, , it is the third most popular language . Many Linux distributions use installers written in Python: Ubuntu uses the Ubiquity installer, while Red Hat Linux and Fedora use the Anaconda installer. Gentoo Linux uses Python in its package management system, Portage. Python is used extensively in the information security industry, including in exploit development. Most of the Sugar software for the One Laptop per Child XO, now developed at Sugar Labs, is written in Python. The Raspberry Pi single-board computer project has adopted Python as its main user-programming language. LibreOffice includes Python, and intends to replace Java with Python. Its Python Scripting Provider is a core feature since Version 4.0 from 7 February 2013.. Python's design and philosophy have influenced many other programming languages: Boo uses indentation, a similar syntax, and a similar object model. Cobra uses indentation and a similar syntax, and its "Acknowledgements" document lists Python first among languages that influenced it. However, Cobra directly supports design-by-contract, unit tests, and optional static typing. CoffeeScript, a programming language that cross-compiles to JavaScript, has Python-inspired syntax. ECMAScript borrowed iterators and generators from Python. Go is designed for the "speed of working in a dynamic language like Python" and shares the same syntax for slicing arrays. Groovy was motivated by the desire to bring the Python design philosophy to Java. Julia was designed "with true macros should be as fast as C". Calling to or from Julia is possible; to with PyCall.jl and a Python package pyjulia allows calling, in the other direction, from Python. Kotlin is a functional programming language with an interactive shell similar to Python. However, Kotlin is strongly typed with access to standard Java libraries. Ruby's creator, Yukihiro Matsumoto, has said: "I wanted a scripting language that was more powerful than Perl, and more object-oriented than Python. That's why I decided to design my own language." Swift, a programming language developed by Apple, has some Python-inspired syntax. GDScript, dynamically typed programming language used to create video-games. It is extremely similar to Python with a few minor differences. Python's development practices have also been emulated by other languages. For example, the practice of requiring a document describing the rationale for, and issues surrounding, a change to the language is also used in Tcl and Erlang. Python received TIOBE's Programming Language of the Year awards in 2007, 2010 and 2018. The award is given to the language with the greatest growth in popularity over the year, as measured by the TIOBE index.