'The Witcher' is an upcoming American fantasy drama web television series created by Lauren Schmidt Hissrich for Netflix. It is based on the book series of the same name by Andrzej Sapkowski. The series is set to be released on December 20, 2019. A second season was announced on November 13, 2019.. The Witcher follows the story of Geralt of Rivia, a solitary monster hunter, who struggles to find his place in a world where people often prove more wicked than beasts. But when destiny hurtles him toward a powerful sorceress, and a young princess with a dangerous secret, the three must learn to navigate the increasingly volatile Continent together..  Henry Cavill as Geralt of Rivia Freya Allan as Princess Ciri Anya Chalotra as Yennefer of Vengerberg Jodhi May as Queen Calanthe Björn Hlynur Haraldsson as King Eist Tuirseach Adam Levy as Mousesack MyAnna Buring as Tissaia de Vries Mimi Ndiweni as Fringilla Vigo Therica Wilson-Read as Sabrina Glevissig Emma Appleton as Princess Renfri Eamon Farren as Cahir Joey Batey as Jaskier Lars Mikkelsen as Stregobor Royce Pierreson as Istredd Maciej Musiał as Sir Lazlo Wilson Radjou-Pujalte as Dara Anna Shaffer as Triss Merigold Mia McKenna-Bruce as Marilka Packy Lee as Nohorn Luke Neal as Vyr Matthew Neal as Nimir Tobi Bamtefa as Danek Sonny Serkis as Martin Roderick Hill as Fletcher Inge Beckmann as Aridea Charlotte O'Leary as Tiffania Natasha Culzac as Toruviel Amit Shah as Torque Tom Canton as Filavandrel.  Andrzej Sapkowski's The Witcher book series was almost adapted into a standalone Netflix film but Kelly Luegenbiehl, Vice President International Originals at Netflix, dissuaded the producers. She recalled asking them, “How can you take eight novels and just turn it into a film? There’s so much material here. Through a number of conversations, the producers got really excited about the idea of using the source material for a longer-running series.” In May 2017, Netflix announced the start of production on an English language drama TV series based on the books. In December 2017, it was reported that Lauren Schmidt Hissrich will serve as showrunner on the show. In April 2018, Hissrich revealed that the script for the pilot episode was finished, the first season would be eight episodes long. In 2017, it was reported that Andrzej Sapkowski will serve as a creative consultant on the show, but in January 2018, Sapkowski denied any direct involvement. However, he met with Schmidt Hissrich in April 2018 and in May 2018 she stated that Sapkowski is on the creative team of the project. Alik Sakharov is a director and Andrew Laws a production designer on the show. A second season was announced on November 13, 2019. In September 2018, it was announced that Henry Cavill would play Geralt of Rivia, and in October 2018, the rest of the cast was announced; Mia McKenna-Bruce was cast as Marilka. In April 2018, Hissrich revealed that the show would be filmed in Eastern Europe. Principal production on Season 1 commenced on October 31, 2018, in Hungary. In March 2019, production on Season 1 moved to Gran Canaria, in the Canary Islands, with some scenes planned to be shot in the islands of La Palma and La Gomera as well. Filming ended in Ogrodzieniec Castle in Poland. Principal photography for the first season ended in May 2019.. In April 2019, Netflix's Ted Sarandos told investors in an earnings call that the show would be released in late 2019. Netflix released the first teaser for the series at San Diego Comic-Con on July 19, 2019. The first full trailer was revealed at Lucca Comics & Games on October 31, 2019. The series will premiere on December 20, 2019.