'Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order' is an action-adventure game developed by Respawn Entertainment and published by Electronic Arts. It was released for Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One on November 15, 2019. The game is set in the Star Wars universe, shortly after the film Episode III – Revenge of the Sith, and follows a young Jedi padawan learner named Cal Kestis as he is being hunted through the galaxy by the Galactic Empire, namely an Inquisitor known as the Second Sister, all the while trying to complete his Jedi training and restore the now wiped out Jedi Order. It was announced during E3 2018, with a more detailed reveal during the Star Wars Celebration in April 2019. The game received generally favorable reviews, with many elements of the game being praised such as the story, characters, gameplay, combat, and music, with criticisms aimed towards the game's technical glitches.. Players take control of Cal Kestis as he attempts to survive while being chased by the Empire, including the the Second Sister. Throughout his journey, Cal visits both new worlds and ones from existing Star Wars lore, such as Kashyyyk and Dathomir, as well as making new friends and allies, including Rebel extremist Saw Gerrera and former Jedi Knight Cere Junda, who becomes his new mentor. The gameplay is that of an action-adventure game, designed for players to "jump into a situation" and deal with it through "having a lightsaber and Force powers", not to utilize stealth elements to avoid combat. There is not an option to play a Dark Side path through the game. In combat, Force usage consists of three different abilities; Force push, Force pull, and Force slow ..  Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order takes place five years after Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith and before Solo: A Star Wars Story, Star Wars Rebels, Rogue One: A Star Wars Story and Star Wars: Episode IV – A New Hope. The game follows young Jedi Padawan Cal Kestis also appear in flashbacks. Five years after the execution of Order 66 and the beginning of the Great Jedi Purge, former Jedi Padawan Cal Kestis is in hiding from the newly risen Galactic Empire. On the planet Bracca, where he works as a scrapper salvaging ships from the Clone Wars era, Cal uses the Force to save his friend Prauf from falling to his death. The incident is recorded by an Imperial Probe Droid who relays the information to the Empire. The Empire sends two Inquisitors known as the Second Sister and the Ninth Sister to pursue Cal. After they kill Prauf, Cal makes his escape, briefly engaging the Second Sister before being rescued by a former Jedi Knight named Cere Junda and her partner pilot Greez Dritus in their ship, the Stinger Mantis. Cere takes Cal to the planet Bogano, hoping that Cal may have be able to access an ancient vault. On the way to the vault, Cal befriends a small droid named BD-1, who shows him a message from a former Jedi Master named Eno Cordova. The message reveals that the vault was built by an ancient civilization called the Zeffo and that a Jedi Holocron containing a list of Force-sensitive children has been hidden inside by Cordova. Cere believes the list could help rebuild the Jedi Order, but the only way to access the vault is to follow Cordova's path. Cal heads to the Zeffo homeworld and explores an ancient Zeffo temple. There, he finds a clue pointing to Cordova's friend, the Wookiee chieftain Tarfful, on the planet Kashyyyk. On Kashyyyk, Cal hijacks an Imperial AT-AT and heads towards the forests, on the way encountering a Rebel commander named Saw Gerrera. Cal teams up with the Rebels to fight the Imperial forces who have been enslaving the native Wookiees. Unable to find Tarfful, Cal returns to Zeffo to find more clues regarding the Holocron vault. There, he is ambushed by the Second Sister, who reveals herself to be Cere's former Padawan, Trilla Suduri. She was captured by the Empire after a Cere revealed the whereabouts after being tortured. Before he departs, Trilla warns Cal of Cere's inevitable betrayal. Cal learns that he needs to find a Zeffo Astrium to unlock the vault, but is then captured by a Haxion Brood bounty hunter and forced to fight in a gladiatorial arena owned by crime lord Sorc Tormo. Cal is rescued by Cere and Greez, and receives a communication that Tarfful is willing to meet. Back on Kashyyyk, Tarfful instructs Cal to seek answers at the top of the Origin Tree. On the way up, he is attacked by the Ninth Sister, whose ship is taken down by a large winged creature. Later, Cal finds the creature wounded and heals it, granting him access to the top of the Origin tree via a flight on it's back. He finds a recording of Cordova telling him that an Astrium can be found on Dathomir. Cal is attacked once again by the Ninth Sister and defeats her. On Dathomir, Cal's progress is impeded by Nightsister Merrin, who blames the Jedi for during the Clone Wars, and attempts to keep him away. Cal experiences a flashback of his former master, Jaro Tapal, sacrificing himself to protect him during Order 66, and is then attacked by Jaro's spirit, leading to his lightsaber's kyber crystal being destroyed. Cal meets Jedi Taron Malicos, who crash-landed on Dathomir during the Purge and has been seeking to learn the magick of the Nightsisters. Malicos offers to teach Cal how to handle this dark power, but he refuses and flees after Merrin attacks them both. Aboard the Mantis, Cere admits that when she learned Trilla became an Inquisitor, she briefly fell to the dark side, which is why she cut herself off from the Force. After traveling to Ilum to rebuild his lightsaber, Cal returns to Dathomir, where he retrieves the Astrium and overcomes his guilt for his part in Jaro's death. Malicos again tries to tempt Cal to the dark side, but Cal fights him and is able to defeat him with the help of Merrin, who then agrees to join the Mantis crew. The crew returns to Bogano, where Cal uses the Astrium to unlock the vault and reveal the Holocron, but he is once again attacked by Trilla, who steals it and escapes after Cal defeats her. Back on the Mantis, Cere reassumes her position as a Jedi and grants Cal the rank of Jedi Knight. Together they assault the Inquisitor headquarters, a station based in the waters of the planet Nur. Cal reaches the Interrogation Chamber where he defeats Trilla and recovers the Holocron. Cere attempts to make amends with Trilla, but Darth Vader appears and kills Trilla for her failure. Unable to defeat Vader, Cal and Cere barely escape from his grasp with the help of BD-1 and Merrin. Back on the Mantis, Cal, having realized that gathering the children would make it easier for the Empire to target them, destroys the Holocron, believing it to be better for those children to discover their own destinies, without interference. Their mission complete, Cal then asks his crew where they should head next.. Stig Asmussen joined Respawn Entertainment in 2014 as the studio's game director, leading the studio's second development team. The project was later revealed to be a third-person action-adventure game set in the Star Wars universe in May 2016. Aaron Contreras, a narrative designer on Mafia III, led the game's narrative team, which included Chris Avellone and four other writers. The studio also collaborated with Lucasfilm to create new characters and locations. The game was created with Unreal Engine 4. Drawing inspiration from The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker and the Dark Souls series, Asmussen has said the team's goals for the game design include creating a deep combat system and incorporating aspects of Metroidvania map design. On June 8, 2019, it was announced that Gordy Haab and Stephen Barton would be composing the score for the game. The former had previously composed the scores to Star Wars: The Old Republic and Star Wars: Battlefront while the latter had collaborated with the studio on the Titanfall series and Apex Legends. The score was recorded at Abbey Road Studios with the London Symphony Orchestra and the Bach Choir of London.. Publisher Electronic Arts announced the game at E3 2018. It was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One on November 15, 2019, a month before the theatrical release of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker. At E3 2019, Electronic Arts showcased a 15-minute demo of the game. Around two weeks after this on June 25, 2019, the studio showed an extended 25-minute version of the original demo. A tie-in comic series, Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order – Dark Temple, was announced on June 11, 2019 for release in September 2019.. Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order received "generally favorable reviews", according to review aggregator Metacritic. IGN Dan Stapleton gave the game 9/10, saying "Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order makes up for a lot of lost time with a fantastic single-player action-adventure that marks the return of the playable Jedi." The PlayStation 4 version of Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order sold 26,761 copies within its first week on sale in Japan, which made it the fifth bestselling retail game of the week. In the UK, it was the second bestselling retail game during its first week on sale, with 66% of sales being for the PlayStation 4 version and the remaining 34% for the Xbox One version. It was also the fourth biggest physical release of 2019. Publisher Electronic Arts confirmed that Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order had the fastest-selling digital launch for any Star Wars game within its first two weeks on sale.