'Survivor: Island of the Idols' is the 39th season of the American competitive reality television series Survivor, airing on CBS in the United States and Global in Canada. This season was announced by CBS on May 15, 2019, the same day as the Survivor: Edge of Extinction finale. The season premiered with a 90-minute episode on September 25, 2019. The live season finale and reunion is planned to air on December 18, 2019. This was the seventh consecutive season to be filmed in Fiji. Sandra Diaz-Twine, winner of Survivor: Pearl Islands and Survivor: Heroes vs. Villains, and Rob Mariano, winner of Survivor: Redemption Island, returned to the game as mentors living on the Island of the Idols, but were not competing for the million-dollar prize themselves. Instead, Diaz-Twine and Mariano would host a contestant each episode and give them a lesson on how to survive on Survivor. They also gave the contestant a chance to win an advantage, but if they failed, they would lose their vote at their next Tribal Council.. According to host Jeff Probst, the idea to bring back past champions as mentors came from "wondering how to get a player like Boston Rob, who has said he'd never compete again because he doesn't feel he'd ever really have a shot to win, to return to the show." The two mentors will be surviving similarly to the contestants on a separate island, though they will have better initial supplies and more time for constructing their shelter and feeding themselves; the players were not aware of Rob or Sandra's participation prior to the start of the game. The mentors’ island has two large wooden busts of their heads, which the arriving castaway will first see when they arrive on the mentor's island before they are greeted by the mentors. After arrival, the mentors explain to the castaway that they are not playing the game and are ineligible to win the million dollar prize nor contribute to any Tribal Council vote. Instead, they teach the castaway a critical skill in the game and then offer the castaway a challenge against one or both of them based on that skill. Winning the challenge can offer a reward such as an immunity idol, while losing the challenge means they will lose their vote at the next Tribal Council they attend , as the casting process opened for Canadians in mid-2018. Canadian citizens had been ineligible to compete on the show previously as, according to Probst, the limitation was due to the rights that Mark Burnett and CBS had on the Survivor format limiting to contestants with American citizenship. While Survivor has had contestants with dual citizenship in the past, such as Survivor: China winner Todd Herzog, they were required to give up their non-U.S. citizenship as a prerequisite for claiming their prize money.. Notable contestants from this season include Tom Laidlaw, a retired National Hockey League defenceman, Elizabeth Beisel, an Olympic swimmer, and Ronnie Bardah, a professional poker player..  From the first episode up until the merge in the , Kellee Kim and several other members of the Vokai tribe had expressed concerns to Dan Spilo about his "inappropriate touching". At the merge, Kellee had her first opportunity to speak to Missy Byrd, who also confirmed her concerns on Dan's behavior. Kellee spoke of her concerns to the merged tribe, at which point production became much more involved. One Survivor producer explained to Kellee that she should let them know if Dan continued to cross the line, then production would immediately take action. Production contacted CBS about the situation, who instructed them to have group and individual meetings with the remaining castaways and formally warned Dan about his behavior. Title cards were used in-episode to explain the situation to viewers. Though not in her best game interests at the time, Kellee and her ally Janet Carbin ultimately agreed to vote out Dan at the first merge Tribal Council, believing to have support from the other women on the tribe, including Missy and Elizabeth Beisel, who had both expressed discomfort towards his actions. However, Kellee was blindsided and saw herself being voted out of the game with two Hidden Immunity Idols still in her possession, following a vote-flip from Missy and Elizabeth, who had decided to deviate from the agreement to vote out Dan in order to take out Kellee, whom they perceived to be a bigger in-game threat. Issues on Dan's behavior persisted in the tribe through the next few days, as both Missy and Elizabeth admitted that they did not have any issues with him, and had simply decided to play on Kellee's concerns as part of the game. At the next Tribal Council, the impact of Dan's behavior had come up, and Dan took time to apologize to Kellee and the other female tribe members for any wrongdoing. According to Probst, he and production talked to Kellee about letting her have a chance to respond to Dan, but she agreed with production that as a jury member she would remain quiet as per the game's rules. Kellee contradicted that statement though, claiming that she did not speak with Probst at all until after that particular Tribal Council. For the remainder of the season, production continued to monitor the situation, with the staff performing individual interviews with players keeping abreast of any concerns or issues related to the situation and reminding contestants to report anything they feel uncomfortable about to production immediately. The situation was considered to be the first time that the Me Too movement entered into Survivor. The day after the episode aired, several contestants posted public apologies to Kellee and Janet for their behavior, seeing the problems with it after watching the episode and not seeing how much the situation harmed the two women. Many fans argued that Dan should have been ejected from the game instead of creating a story out of it for the show. CBS and MGM issued a joint statement reiterating that production had been monitoring the situation around the clock, as part of the standard practice for the show, and would have taken action if they felt Kellee or any other player was at risk. "On Survivor, producers provide the castaways a wide berth to play the game. At the same time, all castaways are monitored and supervised at all times. They have full access to producers and doctors, and the production will intervene in situations where warranted." Other fans were upset at Missy and Elizabeth for falsifying claims towards Dan to trick Kellee.