The backslash , reverse slash, slosh, downwhack, backslant, backwhack, bash, reverse slant, and reversed virgule. In Unicode and ASCII it is encoded at .. Bob Bemer introduced the character into ASCII on September 18, 1961, as the result of character frequency studies. In particular, the was introduced so that the ∧ could be composed in ASCII as and respectively. Both these operators were included in early versions of the C programming language supplied with Unix V6, Unix V7 and more currently BSD 2.11.. In many programming languages such as C, Perl, PHP, Python and in Unix scripting languages, the backslash is used as an escape character, to indicate that the character following it should be treated specially . Except for COMMAND.COM, all other parts of the operating system accept both characters in a path, but the Microsoft convention remains to use a backslash, and APIs that return paths use backslashes. In some versions, the option character can be changed from to via SWITCHAR, which allows COMMAND.COM to preserve in the command name. The Microsoft Windows family of operating systems inherited the MS-DOS behavior and so still support either character – but individual Windows programs and sub-systems may, wrongly, only accept the backslash as a path delimiter, or may misinterpret a forward slash if it is used as such. Some programs will only accept forward slashes if the path is placed in double-quotes. The failure of Microsoft's security features to recognize unexpected-direction slashes in local and Internet paths, while other parts of the operating system still act upon them, has led to some serious lapses in security. Resources that should not be available have been accessed with paths using particular mixes, such as . In mathematics, a backslash-like symbol is used for the set difference. The backslash is also sometimes used to denote the right coset space. In some dialects of the BASIC programming language, the backslash is used as an operator symbol to indicate integer division. In MATLAB and GNU Octave the backslash is used for left matrix divide, while the slash is for right matrix divide. In PHP version 5.3 and higher, the backslash is used to indicate a namespace. In USFM, the backslash is used to mark format features for editing Bible translations.. In the Japanese encodings ISO 646 , leading to similar problems. Since the character was originally not available in all character sets and keyboard layouts, ANSI C can transcribe it in form of the trigraph which, even within string literals, is equivalent to the character. RFC 1345 recommends to transcribe the character as digraph , if not available.