In probability theory and statistics, the Poisson distribution , named after French mathematician Siméon Denis Poisson, is a discrete probability distribution that expresses the probability of a given number of events occurring in a fixed interval of time or space if these events occur with a known constant mean rate and independently of the time since the last event. The Poisson distribution can also be used for the number of events in other specified intervals such as distance, area or volume. For instance, an individual keeping track of the amount of mail they receive each day may notice that they receive an average number of 4 letters per day. If receiving any particular piece of mail does not affect the arrival times of future pieces of mail, i.e., if pieces of mail from a wide range of sources arrive independently of one another, then a reasonable assumption is that the number of pieces of mail received in a day obeys a Poisson distribution. Other examples that may follow a Poisson distribution include the number of phone calls received by a call center per hour and the number of decay events per second from a radioactive source..  The Poisson distribution is popular for modeling the number of times an event occurs in an interval of time or space. A discrete random variable X is said to have a Poisson distribution with parameter λ&nbsp;>&nbsp;0, if, for k&nbsp;=&nbsp;0,&nbsp;1,&nbsp;2,&nbsp;..., the probability mass function of X is given by: : where e is Euler's number . The number of magnitude 5 earthquakes per year in a country may not follow a Poisson distribution if one large earthquake increases the probability of aftershocks of similar magnitude. Among patients admitted to the intensive care unit of a hospital, the number of days that the patients spend in the ICU is not Poisson distributed because the number of days cannot be zero. The distribution may be modeled using a Zero-truncated Poisson distribution. Count distributions in which the number of intervals with zero events is higher than predicted by a Poisson model may be modeled using a Zero-inflated model..  The expected value and variance of a Poisson-distributed random variable are both equal to λ. The coefficient of variation is , while the index of dispersion is 1. The mean absolute deviation about the mean is :: The mode of a Poisson-distributed random variable with non-integer λ is equal to , which is the largest integer less than or equal to&nbsp;λ. This is also written as floor. Further noting that , and computing a lower bound on the unconditional probability gives the result. More details can be found in the appendix of Kamath et al...  If and are independent, then the difference follows a Skellam distribution. If and are independent, then the distribution of conditional on is a binomial distribution. :Specifically, if , then . :More generally, if X1, X2,..., Xn are independent Poisson random variables with parameters λ1, λ2,..., λn then :: given . In fact, . If and the distribution of , conditional on X&nbsp;=&nbsp;k, is a binomial distribution, , then the distribution of Y follows a Poisson distribution . In fact, if , conditional on X = k, follows a multinomial distribution, , then each follows an independent Poisson distribution . The Poisson distribution can be derived as a limiting case to the binomial distribution as the number of trials goes to infinity and the expected number of successes remains fixed — see below. Therefore, it can be used as an approximation of the binomial distribution if n is sufficiently large and p is sufficiently small. There is a rule of thumb stating that the Poisson distribution is a good approximation of the binomial distribution if n is at least 20 and p is smaller than or equal to 0.05, and an excellent approximation if n&nbsp;≥&nbsp;100 and np&nbsp;≤&nbsp;10. :: The Poisson distribution is a special case of the discrete compound Poisson distribution and the correlation coefficient is limited to the range : A simple way to generate a bivariate Poisson distribution is to take three independent Poisson distributions with means and then set . The probability function of the bivariate Poisson distribution is :. Given a sample of n measured values , for i&nbsp;=&nbsp;1,&nbsp;...,&nbsp;n, we wish to estimate the value of the parameter λ of the Poisson population from which the sample was drawn. The maximum likelihood estimate is : Since each observation has expectation λ so does this sample mean. Therefore, the maximum likelihood estimate is an unbiased estimator of λ. It is also an efficient estimator, i.e. its estimation variance achieves the Cramér–Rao lower bound , the posterior distribution is : The posterior mean E approaches the maximum likelihood estimate in the limit as , which follows immediately from the general expression of the mean of the gamma distribution. The posterior predictive distribution for a single additional observation is a negative binomial distribution, sometimes called a Gamma–Poisson distribution. Suppose is a set of independent random variables from a set of Poisson distributions, each with a parameter , , and we would like to estimate these parameters. Then, Clevenson and Zidek show that under the normalized squared error loss , when , then, similar as in Stein's example for the Normal means, the MLE estimator is inadmissible. In this case, a family of minimax estimators is given for any and as :. Applications of the Poisson distribution can be found in many fields including: Telecommunication example: telephone calls arriving in a system. Astronomy example: photons arriving at a telescope. Chemistry example: the molar mass distribution of a living polymerization. Biology example: the number of mutations on a strand of DNA per unit length. Management example: customers arriving at a counter or call centre. Finance and insurance example: number of losses or claims occurring in a given period of time. Earthquake seismology example: an asymptotic Poisson model of seismic risk for large earthquakes. Radioactivity example: number of decays in a given time interval in a radioactive sample. The Poisson distribution arises in connection with Poisson processes. It applies to various phenomena of discrete properties . Many other molecular applications of Poisson noise have been developed, e.g., estimating the number density of receptor molecules in a cell membrane. : In Causal Set theory the discrete elements of spacetime follow a Poisson distribution in the volume.. The Poisson distribution poses two different tasks for dedicated software libraries: Evaluating the distribution , and drawing random numbers according to that distribution. Computing for given and is a trivial task that can be accomplished by using the standard definition of in terms of exponential, power, and factorial functions. However, the conventional definition of the Poisson distribution contains two terms that can easily overflow on computers: λk and k!. The fraction of λk to k! can also produce a rounding error that is very large compared to e−λ, and therefore give an erroneous result. For numerical stability the Poisson probability mass function should therefore be evaluated as : which is mathematically equivalent but numerically stable. The natural logarithm of the Gamma function can be obtained using the lgamma function in the C and let p ← p × u. while p 0: if λLeft > STEP: p ← p × eSTEP λLeft ← λLeft − STEP else: p ← p × eλLeft λLeft ← 0 while p > 1. return k − 1. The choice of STEP depends on the threshold of overflow. For double precision floating point format, the threshold is near e700, so 500 shall be a safe STEP. Other solutions for large values of λ include rejection sampling and using Gaussian approximation. Inverse transform sampling is simple and efficient for small values of λ, and requires only one uniform random number u per sample. Cumulative probabilities are examined in turn until one exceeds u. algorithm Poisson generator based upon the inversion by sequential search: init: Let x ← 0, p ← e−λ, s ← p. Generate uniform random number u in . while u > s do: x ← x + 1. p ← p λ / x. s ← s + p. return x.. The distribution was first introduced by Siméon Denis Poisson that take place during a time-interval of given length. The result had already been given in 1711 by Abraham de Moivre in De Mensura Sortis seu; de Probabilitate Eventuum in Ludis a Casu Fortuito Pendentibus . This makes it an example of Stigler's law and it has prompted some authors to argue that the Poisson distribution should bear the name of de Moivre. In 1860, Simon Newcomb fitted the Poisson distribution to the number of stars found in a unit of space. A further practical application of this distribution was made by Ladislaus Bortkiewicz in 1898 when he was given the task of investigating the number of soldiers in the Prussian army killed accidentally by horse kicks; this experiment introduced the Poisson distribution to the field of reliability engineering.