'Let It Snow' is an American Christmas romantic comedy film directed by Luke Snellin from a screenplay by Kay Cannon, Victoria Strouse and Laura Solon, based on the young adult novel of the same name by Maureen Johnson, John Green, and Lauren Myracle. It was released on November 8, 2019, by Netflix.. On Christmas Eve in Laurel, Illinois, Julie Reyes runs into rising pop star, Stuart Bale, on a train. He mistakes her as paparazzi when she tries to return his phone to him, to which she takes offense, despite his apologies. After the train is stopped by snowed over tracks, Julie gets off to walk home, Stuart joins and offers lunch at a local diner called Waffle Town. She reluctantly agrees and also saves Stuart from a group of fan girls cheerleaders. She reveals to Stuart she got accepted in Columbia University in New York and her mom is also deathly sick, but if she delays leaving, she’ll lose the scholarship. The pair ended up going sledding and meet Julie’s mom, Debbie. They go back to Julie’s house where Stuart is introduced to Julie’s grandpa and they bond over Mick Jagger and everyone dances to one of his songs. During which Debbie throws a coughing fit, causing Julie concern. Stuart offers to get her a nurse for her mom, but Julie sees it as a charity case to which Stuart dismisses, stating he offered it cause he cares about Julie. The two almost kiss when Stuart’s publicist shows up to take him back to his hotel. Stuart offers for Julie to come with him, but she declines, feeling a need to stay with her mom. Across town, Waffle Town employee, Dorrie, tries to juggle her best friend, Addie, who’s worried that her boyfriend is going to break up with her and telling a cheerleader she hooked up that she likes her who visits Waffle Town with her friends. She receives a cold response from the girl, Kerry, and Addie makes a scene with her boyfriend in the diner. Dorrie tries to calm her down, but she storms off. Meanwhile, Tobin plans to tell his best friend, Angie, nicknamed The Duke, that he likes her. The two are invited to a party by Duke’s friend, JP, who Tobin sees as competition. The three end up stealing the keg from the party and ended up in a ditch. They wait for the tow truck in a nearby church where Duke has Tobin play “Whole of the Moon”, but when JP and Duke start dancing together, Tobin leaves. Duke attempts to talk to Tobin about it, who brushes her off, angering her. Tobin’s friend, Keon, attempts to arrange a party to impress a big time DJ, but his parents shut down the party attempt at his house and gets called into work at Waffle Town. His friend and fellow co-worker, Billy, offers Waffle Town as a party spot, provided he get the necessary supplies. Back at home, Julie’s mom convinces her to go to Columbia, stating “when life offers you something special, you take it”. Everyone ends up at Keon’s party after Tobin arrives with the stolen keg. Duke arrives and Tobin confesses his love for her, to which she admits the same. Addie returns to Waffle Town and apologizes to Dorrie for her rude behavior. Kerry apologizes to Dorrie for her hot and cold behavior, kisses her in the open, and the two begin a relationship. Dorrie and Julie tell each other about their day when Stuart returns, wanting to see Julie again before he left town. The two kiss and make plans to meet in New York when Julie moves to Columbia. Keon’s party ends up a success, despite the DJ not coming anymore and everyone dances all night long. Isabela Moner as Julie Reyes, who has been accepted into Columbia University but isn't sure she can leave her sickly mom to go to college Shameik Moore as Stuart Bale, a pop star passing through town. Kiernan Shipka as the Duke. Her real name is Angie. Mitchell Hope as Tobin, who is secretly in love with his best friend, the Duke. Liv Hewson as Dorrie, a waitress at the local Waffle Town with a crush on Kerry. Anna Akana as Kerry, a closeted cheerleader who frequents Waffle Town and Dorrie's love interest. Odeya Rush as Addie, Dorrie's best friend who is paranoid her boyfriend is going to cheat on her Mason Gooding as Jeb, Addie's boyfriend. Jacob Batalon as Keon, Dorrie's co-worker who is hoping to throw a party in their workplace during the snowstorm. Joan Cusack as Tin Foil Woman. Miles Robbins as Billy, an employee at the Waffle Town. Matthew Noszka as JP, the Duke's friend who is in college. D'Arcy Carden as Kira, Stuart's publicist.. In September 2014, Universal optioned the rights to the fix-up novel Let It Snow: Three Holiday Romances by Maureen Johnson, John Green, and Lauren Myracle. In March 2016, Luke Snellin was announced as the film's director. In December 2018, it was announced that film would now be released by Netflix with production by them and is set to begin in 2019. In January 2019, Kiernan Shipka, Isabela Moner, Shameik Moore and Odeya Rush were announced as leads, with Jacob Batalon, Miles Robbins, Mitchell Hope, Liv Hewson, Anna Akana, and Joan Cusack also joining the cast of the film. Principal photography began in February 2019 in Toronto and Millbrook, Ontario.. Let It Snow holds a 75% approval rating on review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, based on 16 reviews, with a weighted average of 5.61/10. The site's consensus reads, "Comfortably cliché, Let It Snow wears its influences on its sleeve, but works anyway thanks an excellent ensemble and just the right amount of holiday cheer".