'Dolemite Is My Name' is a 2019 American biographical comedy film directed by Craig Brewer and written by Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski. The film stars Eddie Murphy as filmmaker Rudy Ray Moore, best known for portraying the character of Dolemite in both his stand-up routine and a series of blaxploitation films, starting with Dolemite in 1975. The film had its world premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 7, 2019, and was released in a limited release on October 4, 2019, before digital streaming on October 25, 2019, by Netflix. The film received positive reviews from critics, with praise for Murphy's comeback performance , as well as its screenplay, costumes, and sense of humor. Dedicated to his older brother, who died in 2017, it is Murphy's first R-rated film since 1999's Life.. In 1970s Los Angeles, Rudy Ray Moore , whose studio Dimension Pictures had turned down Dolemite previously, finds out about the premiere in Indiana and contacts Moore with the promise of distributing the film. Moore arrives at Dimension Pictures dressed as Dolemite along with Lady Reed and the crew dressed up as well. The executive says that although Moore could continue promoting the film himself, he would not see profits right away. However, Dimension Pictures could put the film in theaters and everyone would profit. Moore agrees and begins working on promoting the film professionally. En route to the Hollywood premiere of the film, Moore and the cast read negative reviews of the film that lower their spirits. Upon arrival however, the group is astonished to see an even bigger crowd of people cheering for them outside the theater. While the cast and crew go inside the theater to see the film, Moore stays outside to entertain the crowd who have to wait for the next show. The film's epilogue notes that Rudy Ray Moore continued to tour and star in sequels to Dolemite until his death in 2008. He is today considered to be the "Godfather of Rap". Footage from the real Dolemite movie is shown as well.. * Eddie Murphy as Rudy Ray Moore Da'Vine Joy Randolph as Lady Reed Keegan-Michael Key as Jerry Jones Mike Epps as Jimmy Lynch Craig Robinson as Ben Taylor Tituss Burgess as Theodore Toney Wesley Snipes as D'Urville Martin Aleksandar Filimonović as Joseph Bihari Tip "T.I." Harris as Walter Crane Chris Rock as Bobby Vale Ron Cephas Jones as Ricco Luenell as Aunt Gerald Downey as Bob Brooks Joshua Weinstein as John McCarthy Allen Rueckert as Allan Jon Fox Kodi Smit-McPhee as Nicholas Josef von Sternberg Tommie Earl Jenkins Snoop Dogg as Roj Bob Odenkirk as Lawrence Woolner Barry Shabaka Henley as Demond Tasha Smith as Jimmy's wife Jill Savel as White Actress. Murphy has stated that a biopic of Rudy Ray Moore had long been a dream project for him. Murphy initially met screenwriters Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski in 2003 and they began developing the project. Murphy arranged a meeting between the two writers with Moore, who told him many of his life stories before his death in 2008. However, the early attempts to make the film never came to fruition. On June 7, 2018, it was announced that Craig Brewer would direct Dolemite Is My Name from a script by Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski with Netflix producing and distributing. Eddie Murphy was set to star as Moore. Later that month, the rest of the principal cast was announced. In July 2018, Chris Rock and Ron Cephas Jones joined the cast. Principal photography began on June 12, 2018.. Dolemite Is My Name had its world premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 7, 2019. It was released in a limited release on October 4, 2019 and digital streaming on October 25, 2019.. The review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported that 97% of critics have given the film a positive review based on 189 reviews, with an average rating of 7.93/10. The website's critics consensus reads: "In dramatizing Rudy Ray Moore's stranger-than-fiction story, Eddie Murphy makes Dolemite Is My Name just as bold, brash, and ultimately hard to resist as its subject." Metacritic, another review aggregator, assigned the film a weighted average score of 78 out of 100 based on 32 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews". In Variety, Owen Gleiberman described Murphy's performance as some kind of a comeback, writing: "As the brash hustler who made Dolemite, Eddie Murphy has his best role in years in a film that's like a blaxploitation answer to The Disaster Artist... He plays Rudy as a cheap but priceless carny barker of his own ego." In Washington Free Beacon, John Podhoretz, comparing Dolemite Is My Name to Ed Wood as "a tribute to an entrepreneur," and writes, "Murphy is just glorious here, deserving of an Oscar he almost surely will not get. This is a beautifully and carefully crafted performance in which the greatest comic talent of his generation succeeds in dimming some of his own extraordinary luster to capture Moore's knowing but essential mediocrity."