The seventeenth season of the American reality television show The Voice premiered on September 23, 2019, on NBC. John Legend, Kelly Clarkson and Blake Shelton returned as coaches for their second, fourth, and seventeenth season, respectively. Gwen Stefani, who last coached in the twelfth season, will return, replacing Adam Levine. With Levine's departure, Shelton serves as the last remaining coach from the show's inaugural season. Meanwhile, Carson Daly returned for his seventeenth season as host.. On May 24, 2019, after having initially opted to return for another season, it was announced that original coach Adam Levine wouldn't be returning as a coach and would be departing from the show after sixteen seasons. Gwen Stefani replaced Levine, marking her fourth season as a coach. Blake Shelton returned for his seventeenth season as a coach, John Legend for his second, and Kelly Clarkson for her fourth. The Knockouts, removed in the sixteenth season in favor of the Live Cross Battles round, returned this season, replacing the latter. This season, the coaches went back to only having one Knockout steal instead of a steal and a save. For the first time, the coaches had one steal and one save in the Battles instead of the usual two steals like in the prior seasons. This season's battle advisors were Normani for Team Kelly, Will.i.am for Team Gwen, Usher for Team Legend, and Darius Rucker for Team Blake. Taylor Swift served as a “mega-mentor” for all teams during the Knockouts. She had previously mentored in the show's seventh season.. The second half of "The Voice" episode which aired on October 14 marked the start of the Battle Rounds. The advisors for this round include: Normani for Team Kelly, will.i.am for Team Gwen, Usher for Team Legend, and Darius Rucker for Team Blake. The coaches can steal one losing artist from other coaches and save one losing artist on their team. Contestants who win their battle, are saved by their Coach, or are stolen by another coach will advance to the Knockout rounds. Color key:. The Knockout round started on October 28 after the final battles. The coaches can each steal one losing artist from another team. The top 20 contestants then move on to the Live Playoffs. Taylor Swift is the advisor to contestants from all teams in this round. Color key:. Color key: The Live Playoffs comprised episodes 15 and 16. For the first time since season 11, there was a Top 20 instead of a Top 24. On Monday, the Top 20 artists performed live for their chance at a spot in the Top 13. On Tuesday, in the live results show, two artists from each team advanced based on America's vote, and each coach got to save one of their own artists. The remaining artists from each team with the highest overnight vote had a chance to compete for the Wild Card similar to season 7 and one artist continued on. KeIIy Clarkson had four members on her team, for the second time, following the fifteenth season. This week's theme was “Dedications.” The three artists with the fewest votes competed for an Instant Save, with two leaving the competition. This season, same as the last two seasons, the artist who racked up the most streams on Apple Music during the voting window had their Apple Music votes multiplied by 5. This week, the recipient of the Apple Music multiplier awarded to Jake Hoot. With the elimination of Cali Wilson, this marked the first time since the seventh season that Blake Shelton lost any members of his team prior to the top 11, and the second time out of the past seven seasons in which such an event occurred, having kept his entire team intact up until that point in the competition in the eighth, ninth, tenth, twelfth, thirteenth, fourteenth and sixteenth seasons. This week's theme was “Fan Week.” The two artists with the fewest votes competed for an Instant Save, with one leaving the competition. Once again, the Apple Music multiplier was awarded to Jake Hoot. This week's theme was “Challenge Week.” The three artists with the fewest votes competed for an Instant Save, with two leaving the competition.. * Ricky Braddy was on season 8 of American Idol and was eliminated in the Top 17. Jessie Lawrence was on season 12 of American Idol and was eliminated in the Top 28.