Gina Joy Carano and is featured in the Disney+ series The Mandalorian.. Carano was born in Dallas, Texas, daughter of Dana Joy and professional football player Glenn Carano. She has two sisters, one older and one younger. She was raised by her mother after her parents divorced. Carano graduated from Trinity Christian High School in Las Vegas, Nevada, where she led the girls' basketball team to a state title. She also played volleyball and softball. She attended the University of Nevada, Reno for a year and then University of Nevada, Las Vegas for three years, majoring in psychology.. Carano started her career in the sport of Muay Thai. Her then-boyfriend Kevin Ross, a pro Muay Thai fighter, got her involved. After achieving a Muay Thai record of 12–1–1, Carano received an offer from Jamie Levine to participate in the first-ever sanctioned female MMA bout in Nevada with World Extreme Fighting to fight Leiticia Pestova. She was invited to the World Pro Fighting show in Las Vegas to fight Rosi Sexton. Carano won the fight by knocking out Sexton late in the second round. Carano faced Elaina Maxwell at Strikeforce: Triple Threat on December 8, 2006. She won the fight via unanimous decision. Carano proved critics wrong when she defeated Maxwell for the second time; the first victory coming in a Muay Thai bout. The fight was the first female fight in Strikeforce. She fought on the February 10, 2007, Showtime EliteXC card, defeating Julie Kedzie via unanimous decision in what was called the "Fight of the Night." The fight was the first televised female fight on Showtime. Her scheduled bout against Jan Finney at the EliteXC/K-1 Dynamite!! USA event on June 2, 2007 was canceled due to illness. The Fight Network and other news outlets reported that she was rushed to the hospital via ambulance due to dehydration while attending a World Extreme Cagefighting event as a spectator. Carano fought on the September 15, 2007, Showtime EliteXC card, where she defeated Tonya Evinger via rear naked choke for her first career win by submission. Carano impressed critics by holding her own on the ground before submitting Evinger late in the first round. Carano defeated former HOOKnSHOOT Champion Kaitlin Young at EliteXC: Primetime on May 31, 2008. A day before the fight, Carano failed to make weight for her fight after weighing in at 144.5&nbsp;lb and remained undefeated in MMA until her first and only professional loss to Cris Cyborg in August 2009 at Strikeforce: Carano vs. Cyborg. After Strikeforce purchased the assets of ProElite, Carano, along with other fighters within the defunct promotion, became contractually linked with Strikeforce after many months of a stalemate regarding their free agent status. It was announced at Strikeforce: Lawler vs. Shields that Carano's fight against Cris Cyborg would take place on August 15, 2009, at Strikeforce: Carano vs. Cyborg. Strikeforce created their first for the bout. Though the 145-pound division is most commonly referred to as featherweight, Strikeforce CEO Scott Coker stated that the title would be known as the Strikeforce Women's Lightweight Championship. The title was later renamed the Strikeforce Women's Middleweight Championship. Carano lost the fight against Cyborg by TKO at 4:59 in the first round, giving her first ever loss in her professional MMA career. Carano has not fought since August 2009 and has not been scheduled for any upcoming events. Carano is still under contract with the UFC through her old Strikeforce contract and has four fights remaining on that contract. In November 2010, Strikeforce CEO Scott Coker stated he was hopeful that she would return in 2011. Carano's return was formally announced in February 2011, and Strikeforce announced at its April 9, 2011, event in San Diego that Carano would make her return against Sarah D'Alelio on June 18, during the Overeem vs. Werdum Strikeforce event in Dallas. This bout would have been held by Zuffa, who have been detractors of women's MMA in the past. Critics asserted that the reason for the turnaround was Carano's marketability. However, the fight did not take place. Initially Strikeforce announced Carano failed her pre-fight medical examination and the fight was pulled from the card. Later, it became public that Carano was medically cleared by the Athletic Commission but was removed from the card for other reasons. In April 2014, during an appearance on The Arsenio Hall Show Carano said she was considering a return to MMA. In September 2014 Dana White of the UFC said contract negotiations with Carano had stalled. During her appearance on the Joe Rogan Experience 690 podcast, Ronda Rousey said a fight between Gina Carano and herself had been planned for December 2014, but never materialized.. An early acting role, was via a cameo appearance in Quentin Tarantino's Kill Bill: Volume 1, released in 2003, as a witness at the wedding of Kill Bill's femme fatale, The Bride. Carano starred in the 2005 cult film Ring Girls. Based on true events, Ring Girls is a fast-paced story about five American women from Las Vegas who take on the ultimate challenge of fighting the best Muay Thai fighters in the world. Along with Lisa King, Carano served as a mentor to aspiring fighters in the 2007 Oxygen reality series Fight Girls. She appeared as "Crush" on the NBC show American Gladiators, in which she starred in the workout video of the show along with Monica Carlson team. While the film received mixed reviews, movie critics were united in their praise of Carano's performance. Richard Roeper of the Chicago Sun-Times wrote, "Gina Carano is BIG fun to watch. was one of the few people that you were actually going to see her face.". She was profiled in a feature story for the ESPN series E:60. She was voted "Hottest Woman In America" by Big Biz Magazine in the Spring 2008 issue On May 13, 2008, "Gina Carano" was the fastest-rising search on Google and third-most-searched person on Yahoo!. She was also ranked as no. 5 on the "Top Ten Influential Women of 2008" list on Yahoo! In May 2009, it was announced that Carano was ranked no. 16 in Maxims Hot 100 list. She is one of the cover athletes along with Serena Williams for the October 19, 2009 edition of ESPN The Magazines Body Issue. In April 2012, she became the first recipient of ActionFest's Chuck Norris Award, given to the female action star of the year. In addition to being a nominee for the 2013 Critics Choice Awards for best actress in an action movie for Haywire, Carano was a top 10 most-searched athlete on Yahoo! that year. Awards* 2012 AOCA / Awakening Outstanding Contribution Award* 2012 ActionFest Film Festival, Chick Norris Award for Best Female Action Star. |- | Loss | align=center| 7–1 | Cris Cyborg | TKO | World Extreme Fighting | | align=center| 1 | align=center| 0:38 | Las Vegas, Nevada, United States |