'Jesus Is King' is the ninth studio album by American rapper and producer Kanye West. It was released on October 25, 2019, through GOOD Music and distributed by Def Jam. The album follows a Christian theme, with West describing it as "an expression of the gospel." West had formed his Sunday Service group in January 2019, performing gospel songs and covers of songs from his discography. Sunday Service performed the songs "Water" and "Everything We Need" live prior to release. Jesus Is King features guest appearances from Clipse, Ty Dolla Sign, Kenny G, Fred Hammond, Ant Clemons, and Sunday Service. Production is included from West, Benny Blanco, E*vax, Finatik N Zac, Francis Starlite, Labrinth, Mike Dean, Pi'erre Bourne, Ronny J, Timbaland, and Warryn Campbell, among others. West began recording in August 2018, originally announcing the album as Yandhi. The album missed two initial release dates in September and November 2018 under its original title, before being delayed indefinitely. In August 2019, West's wife Kim Kardashian reannounced Yandhi as Jesus Is King, but it missed two planned release dates for late September 2019 under the new title. The final release was simultaneous with that of a concert film of the same name. "Follow God" was released as the lead single in November 2019, with a and music video both being released for the song. Upon release, the album received mixed reviews from music critics. Some noted the consistency throughout and praised it in comparison to West's previous solo album, while other critics expressed negative feelings towards the lyrical content. Jesus Is King stood as West's record-equaling ninth consecutive album to debut atop the US Billboard 200. With the release, West became the first artist to take all top ten spots on both the Christian Songs and Gospel Songs charts, respectively. West broke another record by being the first artist to simultaneously top five separate charts in the United States: the Billboard 200, Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums, Top Rap Albums, Top Christian Albums and Top Gospel Albums. The album was also a chart topper in Australia, Canada, Denmark, Estonia, Iceland, Latvia, New Zealand and Norway, while attaining top five positions in the Czech Republic, Finland, Ireland, the Netherlands, Sweden, and the United Kingdom..  Throughout May and June 2018, five seven-track albums produced by West at his ranch in Jackson Hole, Wyoming were successively released as the Wyoming Sessions. Pusha T's third studio album Daytona was released first, followed by West's eighth studio album Ye, West's collaborative studio album Kids See Ghosts, with Kid Cudi as Kids See Ghosts, Nas' twelfth studio album Nasir, and Teyana Taylor's second studio album K.T.S.E.; all of the albums were released in 2018. On Ye, West acknowledged his bipolar disorder diagnosis. He stopped taking his medication for the disorder in June 2018 during the rollout of the Wyoming Sessions albums. In July 2018, Chicago artist Chance the Rapper announced that West was coming to Chicago to produce for his seven-track debut studio album. West was seen in the city at the end of August 2018, and confirmed to Fox News that the two of them were recording music together. West later stated that his recording sessions with Chance the Rapper had helped him reconnect with his roots and faith in Jesus. That same month, West released the non-album single "XTCY", which was cut from Ye, while he released "I Love It" in September 2018, a collaborative single with American rapper Lil Pump. In September 2018, West reactivated his Instagram account after a half-year absence, with indications that he was working with producer Ronny J, and Chance the Rapper, alongside the latter's brother Taylor Bennett, and G Herbo. Through his Instagram, West confirmed that he was collaborating with American rapper 6ix9ine and began posting snippets of new music. Ant Clemons, who had previously worked with West on Ye and K.T.S.E., was invited to Chicago where he recorded his vocals for "Everything We Need" and an earlier version of the track "Selah". West also announced that he was permanently moving back to Chicago, which his wife Kim Kardashian was not aware of until she heard about West's announcement through social media, and that he was actively working on a collaborative album with Chance the Rapper titled Good Ass Job. West didn't move back to Chicago and Good Ass Job never materialized. On September 17, 2018, West announced his ninth studio album Yandhi, just three months after the release of his previous album Ye, revealing the cover art and initial release date of September 29, 2018. On September 27, 2018, West visited The Fader headquarters to preview new music from Yandhi and invited people to change up the lyrics. Songs previewed included vocals from Ty Dolla Sign, 6ix9ine, and posthumous vocals from XXXTentacion; West was awaiting Rihanna to send in vocals for a track. A working track list for the initial version of Yandhi included "I Love It" with Lil Pump, "We Got Love" with Taylor and Lauryn Hill . West stated that "the alien Ye is like, fully back in mode, off of medication." On October 12, 2018, West arrived in Uganda and restarted work on the album in a dome-shaped studio set up in the Chobe Safari Lodge at the Murchison Falls National Park. West played new music, including a studio recording of the "We Got Love" remix, for a group of about 100 Ugandan school children during a charity event. In an October 21, 2018 interview, Quavo stated that his trio Migos had recorded for the album. In November 2018, following a Kids See Ghosts performance with Kid Cudi at Tyler, the Creator's Camp Flog Gnaw Carnival, West tweeted that he felt the album was not finished, and that he would "announce the release date once it's done", delaying the album indefinitely. On the first Sunday of 2019, West began the first "Sunday Service" rehearsal, where he performed gospel arrangements of songs from his discography and other songs with choir group The Samples and frequent collaborators such as Tony Williams and Ant Clemons. Guest performers have included Francis and the Lights, Kid Cudi, and 070 Shake. During the second Sunday Service in January 2019, West and a choir performed two unreleased songs titled "The Storm" and "Garden", sung by Ant Clemons. Also in January 2019, West began splitting time between Los Angeles and his newly purchased house in Miami, being seen in the latter city recording with artists such as Lil Wayne, 2 Chainz, Timbaland, Migos, Tee Grizzley, and YNW Melly. On February 14, 2019, West met saxophonist Kenny G for the first time after hiring him for a Valentine's Day performance. The day after, West began previewing new songs to him in the studio and Kenny G suggested that his saxophone "would sound really good" on "Use This Gospel". West pulled out a microphone and Kenny G recorded his part, keeping the track for later reverb and EQ tweaks. On February 25, 2019, Sunday Service was rehearsed outdoors for the first time. A video of West playing a keyboard and leading a group of musicians and singers in recording a cover of Fred Hammond's "This Is The Day" was tweeted by CyHi the Prynce and went viral. "Sunday Service" has been held every Sunday since January 6, 2019. The track "Water" was recorded in April 2019, and was debuted live less than a week later with Ant Clemons and Ty Dolla Sign at the first public Sunday Service performance at Coachella for Easter on April 21, 2019. West has claimed that he was "radically saved" around this time and later enlisted a personal pastor for weekly Bible studies. In July 2019, the planned release of the standalone promotional single "Brothers" was abruptly cancelled due to a shift in focus on Yandhi. That same month, Nicki Minaj stated during an episode of Queen Radio that West had recently told her that he was a born-again Christian. In July 2019, tracks dated from a late-December 2018 session of Yandhi began leaking online, including "New Body" featuring Minaj and Ty Dolla Sign, "The Storm" featuring XXXTentacion, Ty Dolla Sign, and Ant Clemons, a solo track entitled "Bye Bye Baby", and demos of "Alien / SpaceX" and "Law of Attraction", both featuring Ant Clemons. The leaks were precipitated by "group buys", online money-pooling efforts organized by fans in order to purchase the tracks from a well-known leaker. Producers who worked on "Law of Attraction" denounced the leak of their track as an "invasion of privacy", while GOOD Music president Pusha T wrote on Twitter that "it ruins all that we have in store for guys." Paul Thompson, writing for The Fader, noted that the leaks didn't receive mainstream attention and were a "minor story" compared to West songs that had leaked previously. Thompson cited factors such as the lukewarm reception of his previous album Ye and that songs don't typically enter "popular canon" nowadays unless they're released on streaming services. On August 29, 2019, Kardashian announced Jesus Is King by posting a handwritten tracklist of the project on her Twitter. The note also listed a September 27, 2019 release date. In early September 2019, West was reportedly finishing up the album with Pusha T at his newly purchased ranch in Cody, Wyoming, the same state where West recorded his previous two albums Ye and Kids See Ghosts. Following a listening party in Detroit, Kardashian announced that the album would miss its September 27 release date and would instead be released two days later on September 29, 2019, as mixing had to be finalized. Within the two days, West had rerecorded the track "Selah" and was still awaiting a new Minaj verse for "New Body". The September 29 release date was also missed. According to TMZ, the album had already been completed, but West was continually revising it since he was unsatisfied with the end product. In October 2019, West continued working on the album in Wyoming and invited Swizz Beatz to help finish the album. On October 21, West tweeted out a new release date, October 25, 2019. However, the album went on to miss its midnight premiere, with West explaining the delay hours after by tweeting: "To my fans, Thank you for being loyal & patient. We are specifically fixing mixes on 'Everything We Need' 'Follow God' & 'Water'." West delaying the release caused controversy across Twitter, though Spotify France tweeted in a way which indicated that they were unaware of when Jesus Is King was to be released on the streaming service. Jesus Is King was ultimately released on October 25, accompanying an experimental concert short film of the same name directed by Nick Knight. The film was shot over the summer of 2019 at the Roden Crater in Painted Desert, Arizona, and features the Sunday Service group. The film was released in IMAX theaters, with tracks from the album being included as part of the soundtrack.. Jesus Is King is a Christian hip hop record, and features a significant gospel influence. Complex journalist Eric Skelton considered that it was not a sonic departure from West's previous work, noting its "healthy doses of bass, pretty chords, hip hop sensibilities, and pop melodies", and claimed that it borrows elements from his past albums such as My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy, Ye, and The Life of Pablo , while Samuel J. Robinson of Rolling Stone highlighted its use of trap drums, ambient flourishes and samples. However, Charles Holmes, also of Rolling Stone, described it as a "far more muted, stripped-down affair than most West albums", with the exception of the track "On God", produced by Pi'erre Bourne, due to its "galactic, fiery, and intense" beat. He also considered that, despite its gospel influences, "Jesus Is King is a gospel album in the same way a square is a rectangle", only fitting "the most basic criteria", and wrote that its production consists largely of recognizable gospel components such as "pared-back guitars, mournful organs and pianos, and choral arrangements deployed like soul samples." Andrew Legg, Tasmanian musician and director of the ARIA award-nominated Southern Gospel Choir described Jesus is King as "a remarkable gospel album", calling it "enuinely contemporary" and predicted it would "inevitably challenge the traditional concept of African American gospel while influencing it shape for years to come". Writing for The Daily Telegraph, Neil McCormick viewed the album as where "West has confounded expectations once again with a set of dramatic, evangelical hip hop testimonials." Torsten Ingvaldsen from Hypebeast noted the influence taken from West's previous albums, describing Jesus Is King as what "can be seen as Kanye's way of reenvisioning his past, updating it within his own hip-hop missionary lens in an attempt to bring something new to these seemingly anachronistic principles.". Jesus Is King focuses on the Christian concept of salvation with the entire album being clean of explicit lyrics, including verses from guest features. West spoke at the listening party in New York on September 29, 2019, stating "This album has been made to be an expression of the gospel and to share the gospel and the truth of what Jesus has done to me. When I think of the goodness of Jesus and all that he does for me, my soul cries out." Adam Tyson, who became West's personal pastor after April 2019, was present in the recording studio of the album and helped tweak certain lyrics "to articulate the gospel more clearly." The album also focused on sanctification—obeying Jesus, avoiding sin, and growing in one's faith. Indeed, West "asked people working on the album to fast or to avoid premarital sex." In the song "Hands On", West asks fellow Christians to pray for him so "that he may learn and grow in sanctification." Tyson had discussed both justification and sanctification with West in their conversation. West emphasized that the purpose of Jesus Is King was to preach the gospel and evangelize, leading to nonbelievers' conversion to Christianity. This was made clear in the song "God Is", where West sings "Everybody, I will tell 'til the whole world is healed." In "Selah" and "Closed on Sunday", West emphasizes the traditional Christian doctrine of Sunday Sabbatarianism, referencing the fast-food chain Chick-fil-A, which West praises for being closed on the Lord's Day in order to allow people to attend church and rest. West links the observance of the Christian Sabbath with the "end of imprisonment, slavery, and debt peonage." The imagery used in the song "Water" is a reference to the Christian sacrament of baptism. In Jesus is King, West teaches the doctrine of the Social Kingship of Christ through his advocation of "defying worldly authorities" and "seek liberty from lower powers by submitting to a higher one." West references the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution that abolished slavery on "On God" and "Hands On"; West had previously called for the repeal of the amendment in September and October 2018 due to the that suggests that the enslavement of convicts is legal. "Selah" includes a reference to West releasing Jesus Is King instead of Yandhi as West vowed to only produce Christian hip hop after his new birth experience.. Originally titled Yandhi, the album was set for release on September 29, 2018, but was postponed to November 23, 2018. West later postponed the album again in November 2018 with no new release date set. In January 2019, a representative for West denied a report claiming West was refusing to submit the album to gain leverage in a legal dispute with his record labels GOOD Music and Def Jam. On August 29, 2019, Kardashian announced Jesus Is King with the release date of September 27 alongside a notebook featuring the track list via Instagram. A representative for West reported to E! News that Jesus Is King would be his "latest album." During a Sunday Service performance on September 16, 2019, West confirmed the release date that Kardashian tweeted out. On September 27, 2019, following a Sunday Service performance in Detroit, West previewed the album and the upcoming film also entitled Jesus Is King at the Fox Theatre. Kardashian then announced the album had been pushed back two days to be released on September 29, 2019, stating that mixing had to be finalized and that there'd be two more listening sessions in Chicago and New York. The album also missed that date with no explanation provided by either West or Kardashian. On October 12, 2019, West announced a tentative release date of October 25, 2019 at a Washington, D.C. listening party. West ultimately confirmed via Twitter on October 21 that this was the official release date and pre-ordering for the album began the following day. Jesus Is King and its accompanying film were previewed again at The Forum in Los Angeles on October 23, 2019 for 17,000 attendees, two days before the release of them. West performed the single "I Love It" with Lil Pump and "We Got Love", a duet with Teyana Taylor featuring a pre-recorded voice memo by Lauryn Hill, on the season 44 premiere of Saturday Night Live that coincided with the original September 29, 2018 release date. West closed the show by performing "Ghost Town" from Ye with Kid Cudi and 070 Shake and giving a speech in support of US president Donald Trump. West recorded a music video for "We Got Love" with Taylor on October 1, 2018, in the TMZ parking lot, though the music video was never released. Both "I Love It" and "We Got Love" were initially intended for Yandhi. On October 25, 2019, Jesus Is King was released for digital download and streaming by GOOD Music, distributed by Def Jam Recordings. Prior to release, West had performed the songs "Everything We Need" and "Water" live with the Sunday Service group in January and April 2019, respectively. When premiering "Water", West announced the song as a new track. It was ultimately released as the seventh track on the album. Various churches across the state of Texas have revealed that they won't play Jesus Is King, and it has also been predicted by numerous people involved with Christianity to not be played on Christian radio stations across the state. The day before the album was released, West announced another studio album, revealing that on December 25, 2019, he will release the collaborative album Jesus Is Born with Sunday Service. However, West went on to announce the collaborative studio album Jesus Is King Part II with Dr. Dre on November 18. A for "Follow God" premiered on October 26, 2019. On November 5, the song was selected by West for release as the album's lead single to US rhythmic contemporary radio stations on November 12, 2019, and the song was serviced to radio by his record labels. It was serviced to mainstream radio stations across the United Kingdom on November 8, 2019, through West's record labels as the lead single in the UK. That same day, an accompanying music video was released. The song reached number seven on the US Billboard Hot 100, becoming West's 18th top ten entry on the chart. It peaked at number six on the UK Singles Chart, standing as West's 23rd top ten single on the chart. At the time of Jesus Is King being released, West simultaneously launched "a clothing line depicting Christ blessing the people." After its launch, the Jesus Is King clothing line had sold out. The apparel in the Jesus is King clothing line features the album name and "includes a T-shirt, long-sleeved shirt, crewneck and hooded sweatshirts, sweatpants and baseball caps." On October 27, 2019, West and his choir performed the first Sunday Service since the album's release at The Forum, with songs from it being performed. Songs from The Life of Pablo were performed as well, which Kardashian referenced on Twitter, while she also tweeted out in excitement over the event. West performed songs from Jesus Is King with his choir in front of inmates at two jails in Houston, Texas, on November 15. On November 16, 2019, it was announced that West would be performing at Joel Osteen's Lakewood Church the next day to promote the album. Simultaneously, tickets were made available for free through Ticketmaster, and were gone within seven minutes. Scalpers immediately began selling them on Twitter and Craig's List at up to $250 each. The event was called the "Sunday Service Experience", with the Sunday Service including West and his choir performing, though it was open to fans of all faiths despite being centered around Christianity. Tracks from Jesus Is King were performed alongside material that West released earlier in his career, including "Jesus Walks" .. Jesus Is King was met with mixed reviews from music critics. At Metacritic, the album received an average score of 55, based on 24 reviews. Aggregator AnyDecentMusic? gave Jesus Is King 4.9 out of 10, based on their assessment of the critical consensus. Jordan Bassett from NME wrote of the album: "Where last year's truncated, seven-track ye largely felt sterile and unfinished, a collection of messy, half-realised conceits, here is an album with absolute clarity and confidence." Bassett continued, calling it "concise by West's standards" but not one of his "masterworks" like My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy and The Life of Pablo, though asserted that "there's density and focus throughout." McCormick expressed similar feelings, writing: "Packed with gospel choirs, church organs and soulful ululations condensed into a typically bravura tableaux of obscure samples, warped synths and spooky slabs of vocoder harmonies, Jesus Is King sounds as scintillating as anything in West's considerable canon." Rawiya Kameir from Pitchfork called the album "a markedly more cohesive and enjoyable album than I believed him capable of creating at this juncture" but criticized it for being "largely focused on the ways in which religion has served Kanye himself." Daniel Bromfield at Spectrum Culture viewed Jesus Is King as being "a confounding, often disappointing, and always interesting work," praising the production and criticizing "the subpar quality of the rapping" and its "lack of personality." Sam C. Mac of Slant Magazine also praised the production, but criticized West's lack of capability to "translate his spiritual awakening to his music as confidently as he has nearly every other experience in his life on previous albums." Writing for The New York Times, Jon Caramanica said in reference to the album: "A more engaged and vivid album than Ye from last year, though nowhere as robust as The Life of Pablo from 2016, it is bare-bones and curiously effective, emotionally forceful and structurally scant." In a mixed review, Brendan Klinkenberg of Rolling Stone looked at the album as where West is "no longer poking at contradictions, but reveling in a newfound zeal," though concluded by writing that "it will likely be placed alongside last year's ye as a distinctly lightweight entry" in West's discography despite being "filled with moments of undeniable brilliance." Ross Horton was somewhat negative in The Line of Best Fit, expressing the viewpoint that Jesus Is King "isn't even as hilariously shit or infuriatingly offensive as Ye," and concluding by stating that "it's one great tune and a bunch of other ideas, and it isn't entertaining in the slightest." For The Guardian, Dean Van Nguyen called the album "too slight a record, too lacking in substance, to offer any sense of purification or real insights into West's mind" and branded it as "perfunctory religious discussion that tell us little of God's place in the life of this one believer and almost nothing of God's place in the modern world." In another negative review, Wren Graves from Consequence of Sound gave the album a "F" rating, viewing it as "27 minutes of cliches, half-finished thoughts, and vaguely religious gesturing," while claiming that the album "feels surprisingly long" and writing: "Ideas develop and fizzle, but nothing sticks.". On the US Billboard 200, Jesus Is King opened at number one with 264,000 album-equivalent units, of which 109,000 were pure album sales, ranking as the second-largest sales week of 2019 for an R&B/hip-hop album. This gave West his ninth consecutive album to debut atop the chart, tying him with a record held by fellow rapper Eminem. The chart-topping position stood as the sixth time that West did so with an album in the 2010s, tying him for second place with fellow rapper Future and Canadian singer Justin Bieber for most number one albums of the decade. The album simultaneously entered atop the US Top Christian Albums and charts. By doing so, Jesus Is King gave West his first appearance on the respective charts and the sales stood as the biggest unit week on both charts. On the US charts, the album became the first to ever top the Billboard 200, Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums, Top Rap Albums, Top Christian Albums and Top Gospel Albums at the same time. In its second week on the Billboard 200, Jesus Is King didn't remain atop the chart, falling to number two. The album moved 72,000 album-equivalent units that week, experiencing a 73% decline in sales. Jesus Is King further descended four places to number six on the chart the following week, pushing 38,000 units and declining in sales by 47%. In its fourth week on the Billboard 200, the album fell down four places to number ten with 30,000 album-equivalent units, declining by 20% in sales. Jesus Is King topped the Canadian Albums Chart with 16,000 total consumption units and 17.9 million on-demand streams. This stood as West's seventh number one album in Canada and his second consecutive chart topper. The following week, the album dropped to number two on the Chart. Jesus Is King debuted atop the ARIA Albums Chart, giving West his third number one album in Australia and following on from Ye as his second consecutive solo chart topper, while standing as the first time that an album with the word "King" in its title reached the summit. This lead to West ranking at number 157 on the list of "Accumulated Weeks at No.1: 1965 to 2019" and stood as the 498th time that an album debuted atop the chart, though was the 20th in 2019. The reign of the album at the top position continued into its second week on the ARIA Albums Chart, with Jesus Is King becoming West's first album to remain at number one for over a week in Australia. The following week, the album descended five places to number six on the chart. Jesus Is King gave West his second chart-topping solo album in Norway by debuting at number one on the Norwegian Albums Chart. A chart-topping debut was also attained by the album on the Danish Albums chart, standing as West's second chart topper in Denmark. Jesus Is King debuted atop the Estonia Tipp-40, ending the seven week reign of rapper Post Malone's third studio album Hollywood's Bleeding. The album also reached number one in Iceland, Latvia and New Zealand. Jesus Is King debuted at number two on the UK Albums Chart, being blocked from the top spot by Welsh rock band Stereophonics' eleventh studio album Kind. However, this gave West his sixth top ten album on the chart. The album also entered at number two on the Irish Albums Chart, with it being prevented from becoming a chart topper by Irish singer-songwriter Dermot Kennedy's debut studio album Without Fear. Despite this, Jesus Is King stood as the highest new entry of the week on the chart and West's sixth top ten album in Ireland. On the Sverigetopplistan albums chart, the album reached number two, tying with The Life of Pablo for West's highest charting album in Sweden, while reaching the same position on the Lithuanian Albums chart. In the Netherlands, Jesus Is King peaked at number three on the Dutch Album Top 100. Similarly, the album charted at number four and five on the Finnish Albums and Czech Albums charts respectively. All eleven songs from Jesus Is King charted on the US Billboard Hot 100. This made West the artist with the fifth-most songs on the chart, with his total number of entries amounting to 107. With the album, West became the first artist to monopolize all top ten spots on the Christian Songs and Gospel Songs charts.. Track listing and credits adapted from Tidal. Notes signifies a co-producer signifies an additional producer Sample credits "Selah" contains samples of "Revelation 19:1", performed by the New Jerusalem Baptism Choir under the direction of Curtis Hayes and Jeffrey LaValley. "Follow God" contains samples of "Can You Lose By Following God", written by Johnny Frieson, Curtis Eubanks, and Calvin Eubanks, and performed by Whole Truth. "Closed on Sunday" contains samples of "Martín Fierro", written by and performed by . "On God" contains samples of "Lambo", written and performed by YB; and "Oh My God", written by Jonathan Davis, Ali Shaheed Muhammad, Trevor Smith, and Malik Taylor, and performed by A Tribe Called Quest featuring Busta Rhymes. "Water" contains an interpolation of "We're All Water", written by Yoko Ono and performed by Ono and John Lennon, and contains samples of "Blow Job", written and performed by Bruce Haack. "God Is" contains samples of "God Is", written by Robert Fryson and performed by James Cleveland and the Southern California Community Choir. "Use This Gospel" contains samples of "Costume Party", written by Alex Trimble, Kevin Baird, and Sam Halliday and performed by Two Door Cinema Club. "Jesus Is Lord" contains samples of "Un Homme Dans La Nuit", written by .. Credits adapted from Tidal. Musicians Sunday Service Choir – additional vocals Ant Clemons – additional vocals Bongo ByTheWay – additional vocals Bradford Lewis – guitar Labrinth – additional vocals Kenny G – saxophone Jesse McGinty – tuba , trombone , trumpet , saxophone , French horn , euphonium Mike Cordone – trumpet Engineers Josh Berg – recording Josh Bales – recording Shane Fitzgibbon – recording Zack Djurich – recording Jesse Ray Emster – recording Steven Felix – recording Randy Urbanski – recording Jamie Peters – recording Andrew Drucker – recording Federico Vindver – mixing Mike Dean – mixing , mastering Jess Jackson – mixing Manny Marroquin – mixing Chris Galland – mix engineering Sage Skolfield – assistant mixing Sean Solymar – assistant mixing Robin Florent – assistant mixing Scott Desmarais – assistant mixing Jeremie Inhaber – assistant mixing