Kenneth Henry Miles was an English sports car racing engineer and driver best known for his motorsport career in the US and with American teams on the international scene. He is an inductee to the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America.. Miles was born on 1 November 1918 in Sutton Coldfield, a short distance from the city of Birmingham. He was the son of Eric Miles and Clarice Jarvis. After a failed attempt to run away to the United States, Miles left school at the age of 15 to work as an apprentice at Wolseley Motors, who sent him to a technical school to broaden his knowledge of vehicle construction. He raced motorcycles before he served as a tank commander in the British Territorial Army in World War II. Miles spent the next seven years working in machinery and was promoted to the rank of staff sergeant in 1942. He was stationed in a tank unit that was assigned to taking part in the Normandy landings in 1944. After the war, he raced Bugattis, Alfa Romeos, and Alvises with the Vintage Sports Car Club. He then turned to a Ford V8 Frazer-Nash. Miles then moved from England to the Los Angeles, California area in 1951 or 1952. In 1953, he won 14 straight victories in SCCA racing in an MG-based special of his own design and construction. For the 1955 season, he designed, constructed and campaigned a second special based on MG components that was known as the "Flying Shingle". It was very successful in the SCCA F modified class on the west coast. Miles raced the "Flying Shingle" at Palm Springs in late March, finishing first overall against veteran driver Cy Yedor, also in an MG Special, and novice driver, actor James Dean in a Porsche 356 Speedster. Miles was later disqualified on a technical infraction because his fenders were too wide, thus allowing Yedor and Dean to get 'bumped up' to first and second. During 1956, Miles raced Johnny von Neumann's Porsche 550 Spyder at most of the Cal Club and SCCA events. For the 1957 season and the third place car drew up, and they cruised to the line together. Miles was denied the unique achievement of winning Sebring, Daytona, and Le Mans in the same year. The French race officials, after initially agreeing to Ford's dead-heat "photo-finish", reneged during the final hour of the race. Since the McLaren/Amon #2 car had started some 20 yards behind the Miles/Hulme #1 Car, it had traveled a farther distance, and Bruce McLaren and Chris Amon were declared the winners.. The Ford J-car was intended to be the successor to the all-conquering Ford GT Mk.II and, despite reliability problems, showed potential in the springtime Le Mans trials. After the death of Walt Hansgen in a Mk.II Ford, the decision was made to shelve the J-car and focus on the proven Mk IIs, and little development was done for the rest of the 1966 World Sports Car Championship season. Finally, in August 1966, Shelby American resumed testing and development work with Miles serving as primary test driver. The J-car featured a breadvan-shaped rear section that experimented with Kammback aerodynamic theories, as well as a revolutionary probably saved the life of Mario Andretti, who crashed violently during the 1967 24 Hours of Le Mans but escaped. Miles is interred at the Abbey of the Psalms Mausoleum of the Hollywood Forever Cemetery in Hollywood, California.. *Miles was posthumously inducted into the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America in 2001.. Ken Miles was married to his wife, Mollie, and had a son Peter Miles. When Ken died while testing a prototype car in 1966, Peter, who witnessed his father's death, was almost 15. A few months after Ken's death, Peter went to work for Ken's friend Dick Troutman at the Troutman and Barnes custom car shop in Culver City, CA. Peter stayed at the workshop for 14 years. In 1986, Peter joined Precision Performance Inc. , starting as fabricator and then a mechanic before becoming the crew chief. Peter was the crew chief for Ivan Stewart when Stewart won the 1991 Nissan 400 in Nevada. In a 2019 interview with Le Mans, Peter revealed that the last time he went to Le Mans was in 1965 with his father Ken, and he has not returned since. Peter is currently an executive administrator of a vintage car collection belonging to William E. Connor II., valued at over $80 million.. Miles is portrayed by Christian Bale in the 2019 film Ford v Ferrari Miles's wife Mollie and his son Peter are portrayed by Caitriona Balfe and Noah Jupe, respectively.