'The Masked Singer' is an American reality singing competition television series part of the Masked Singer franchise featuring celebrities in head-to-toe costumes and face masks which conceal their identities from other contestants, panelists, and an audience. It premiered on Fox on January 2, 2019, and is hosted by Nick Cannon. On January 30, 2019, Fox announced it had renewed the series for a second season. On May 13, 2019, Fox announced that the second season would premiere in fall 2019, and that it had ordered a third season, which will premiere following Super Bowl LIV on February 2, 2020.. The Masked Singer is based on the South Korean show King of Mask Singer. Executive producer Craig Plestis explained that he first discovered the format during a visit to a Thai restaurant. While an episode of the Thai version of the show was playing on a television, he observed that the other patrons "were all just staring at this TV watching this crazy kangaroo in like a pleather outfit singing, and we didn't even finish dinner." Plestis and his daughter began to research the series, and he later secured the rights to produce an American adaptation—which he would sell to Fox. Due to Plestis' relationship with the studio, the first season of The Masked Singer was produced by Endemol Shine North America, then-owned partly by Fox's parent 21st Century Fox . For the second season, production transitioned to a new in-house studio under the Fox network, Fox Alternative Entertainment.. A group of celebrities compete on the show anonymously in costumes over a series of episodes. Each episode, a portion of the competitors are paired off into face-off competitions, in which each will perform a song of his or her choice in their real voice. From each face-off, the panelists and live audience vote; the winner is safe for the week, while the loser is put up for elimination. At the end of the episode, the losers of the face-offs are then subjected to the earlier votes of the panelists to determine who will not continue; the eliminated singer then takes off their mask to reveal their identity. In addition to the singing competition, hints to each masked singer's identity are offered during the show. Pre-taped interviews are given as hints and feature celebrities' distorted voices. The panelists are given time to speculate the identity of the singer after the performance and ask them a single question to try to determine their identity. Following the announcement of the series, it was confirmed by Fox that the judging panel would consist of singer-songwriter Robin Thicke, television personality Jenny McCarthy, actor and comedian Ken Jeong, and recording artist Nicole Scherzinger. It was also confirmed that Nick Cannon would host the show. Occasionally, there are guest panelists that appear as the fifth judge for a few episodes; in season 1, they were comedian Joel McHale . On March 28, 2019, Sharon Osbourne revealed on The Talk that she was originally supposed to be signed on as a judge for the series; those plans fell through after being contractually obligated to appear on The X Factor.. # Comedian Joel McHale served as a guest judge in episodes 3 and 4, actor J.B. Smoove in episode 7, and actor and comedian Kenan Thompson in episodes 8 and 10. # Actor Anthony Anderson served as a guest judge in episode 6, Triumph the Insult Comic Dog served as a guest judge in episode 7, and McHale returned as a guest judge in episode 8. Season 1 winner, T-Pain is set to be a guest judge in episode 10..  The premiere episode received mixed reviews. Emily Yahr of The Washington Post described the premiere episode as "one of the craziest reality shows of our time"; Vulture felt that the series was more entertaining, yet "weirder, sillier, and stupider" than other U.S. music competition programs, and described the format as having the "vibe" of "what if their jobs with all the insight and acumen of an America's Next Top Model contestant trying to decipher the Tyra Mail." In addition, the performances on the show were considered "underwhelming" due to the contestants not always being singers. However, the format was described as brilliant and deemed to have depth for being "a pretty fascinating examination of celebrity culture, mass appeal, performance, image, and fame."