'The War of the Worlds' is a 2019 three-part British miniseries drama produced by Mammoth Screen for the BBC and co-produced with Creasun Media and Red Square. The series is an Edwardian period adaptation of the H.G. Wells's 1898 science fiction novel of the same name, and is the first British television adaptation of Wells's Martian invasion novel. The War of the Worlds miniseries premiered in other countries before its UK broadcast on the BBC between 17 November and 1 December 2019.. Set in Edwardian England, the miniseries follows George as they start a life together in defiance of British society. They suddenly must face the escalating terror of an invasion of England from Mars, while also fighting for their very lives against an unstoppable enemy beyond humanity's comprehension..  Eleanor Tomlinson as Amy Rafe Spall as George Rupert Graves as Frederick Nicholas Le Prevost as Chamberlain Harry Melling as Artilleryman Jonathan Aris as Priest Robert Carlyle as Ogilvy Charlie De'Ath as Greaves Joey Batey as Henderson Freya Allan as Mary Daniel Cerqueira as Stent Aisling Jarrett-Gavin as Lucy Woody Norman as George Junior Reid Anderson as Stall Holder.  The War of the Worlds was first announced in December 2015, with the BBC confirming production of the series in May 2017. The series is produced by Mammoth Screen for the BBC, co-produced with Creasun Media, in association with Red Square. Writer Peter Harness expanded the role of the narrator's wife, stating "I think the clearest choice that I made from the start of this project was to give the male character a wife who had strength of character in her own right It was very important to me to make the female character three-dimensional". The series was directed by Craig Viveiros, produced by Betsan Morris Evans, and executive produced by Damien Timmer, Preethi Mavahalli, Peter Harness and Viveiros from Mammoth Screen, Tommy Bulfin from the BBC, Minglu Ma from Creasun and Jamie Brown from Red Square. Filming began in Liverpool in April 2018. Locations include St George's Plateau, Eldon Grove, Vauxhall , Sir Thomas Street, Dale Street, Ainsdale Woods, Delamere Forest, the village of Great Budworth in Cheshire, the Palm House and Croxteth Hall. Filming and post-production were completed by May 2019..  The first footage of the series was released in July 2018 and January 2019 trailers for the BBC's upcoming drama series, with the first full trailer being released in September 2019. The series was released in the UK over three episodes. Originally, it was set to premiere in the Christmas 2018 period. The War of the Worlds premiered on T+E in Canada between 6 and 20 October 2019, and was broadcast on TVNZ 1 in New Zealand in two parts between 13 and 20 October 2019. Mammoth Screen announced in September 2019 that the series was expected to be released in the UK in late 2019; the first episode had its UK premiere on 17 November 2019. ITV Studios Global Entertainment is responsible for the international distribution of The War of the Worlds miniseries. It has been sold to major European countries and African territories.. The War of the Worlds has received mixed reviews from critics. The miniseries holds a 70% approval rating on online review aggregate site Rotten Tomatoes with an average score of 6/10, based on 20 critic reviews. The site's consensus reads "Respectful, if not exactly riveting, Craig Viveiros' reimagined The War of the Worldss wandering narrative undermines its strong performances." The Guardian gave it four stars, deeming it 'solid and reliable' drama, but criticised the plot's pacing, stating it had a 'lack of urgency'. The Independent gave it three stars, commending the performance and special effects, but questioned its political subtext. The Telegraph gave the first episode two stars and criticised it for changing aspects of the novel and the performances by Tomlinson and Spall. The Irish Independent was unfavourable to the first episode and called it a 'massive disappointment'. The Telegraph was more negative towards the second episode, giving it one star. The Independent was more negative towards the third episode, giving it two stars. Viewers expressed anger towards the changes.