Coldplay are a British rock band formed in London in 1996. The band's vocalist/pianist Chris Martin, guitarist Jonny Buckland, bassist Guy Berryman and drummer Will Champion, met at University College London and came together from 1996 to 1998. During these two years, the band changed names from Pectoralz to Starfish and, finally, to Coldplay. Creative director and former manager Phil Harvey is often referred to as the fifth member by the band. They recorded and released two EPs: Safety in 1998 and The Blue Room in 1999. The latter was their first release on a major record label, after signing to Parlophone. Coldplay achieved worldwide fame with the release of the song "Yellow" in 2000, followed in the same year by their debut album Parachutes, which was nominated for the Mercury Prize. The band's second album, A Rush of Blood to the Head , the best-selling album worldwide of 2008, was produced by Brian Eno and released to largely positive reviews, earning three Grammy Awards. In October 2011, Coldplay released their fifth studio album, Mylo Xyloto, which topped the charts in over 34 countries, was the UK's best-selling rock album of 2011, and received moderately positive reviews. Their sixth album, Ghost Stories, released in 2014, received mixed reviews and topped several national album charts. The following year the band released their seventh album, A Head Full of Dreams, which reached the top two in most major markets, but received generally mixed reviews. Four years later, in November 2019, they released their eighth album, Everyday Life, which received mainly positive reviews. Coldplay have won numerous awards throughout their career, including nine Brit Awards, six MTV Video Music Awards, seven MTV Europe Music Awards and seven from 29 nominations. They have sold more than 100 million records worldwide, making them one of the world's best-selling music artists. Three of their albums—Parachutes, A Rush of Blood to the Head and X&Y—are among the best-selling albums in UK chart history. In December 2009, Rolling Stone readers voted the group the fourth-best artist of the 2000s. Coldplay have supported various social and political causes, such as Oxfam's Make Trade Fair campaign and Amnesty International. They have also performed at charity projects, including Band Aid 20, Live 8, Global Citizen Festival, Sound Relief, Hope for Haiti Now: A Global Benefit for Earthquake Relief, One Love Manchester, The Secret Policeman's Ball, Sport Relief and the UK Teenage Cancer Trust..  Chris Martin and Jonny Buckland first met during their orientation week at University College London how can it be actively beneficial", and hope that it would be entirely carbon-neutral. Coldplay launched the album by performing a one-off show for the charity ClientEarth at London's Natural History Museum. The band played beneath , a giant 128-year-old skeleton of a blue whale in the museum’s great hall.. Coldplay's musical style has generally been regarded as alternative rock, pop rock, post-Britpop, and pop. Chris Martin once proclaimed the band's music as "limestone rock" in comparison to "hard rock". The band's music has been called "meditative" and "blue romantic"; it " his feelings". Coldplay started out as one of many earnest post-Britpop bands. In the late 1990s, the EPs released by the band had characteristics of dream pop, setting them apart from later studio albums. The tone of the band's first studio album Parachutes, which saw them emerge as one of the most prominent modern bands in popular music, was described as melodic pop with "distorted guitar riffs and swishing percussion" but also being "exquisitely dark and artistically abrasive". Their alternative rock style has been compared to bands like U2, Oasis, a-ha and Radiohead. The band acknowledges the Scottish rock band Travis as a major influence on their earlier material. In their second studio album A Rush of Blood to the Head, the band drew inspiration from artists like Echo & the Bunnymen, Kate Bush, George Harrison and Muse. The songs in it were considered to contain "lush melodies and a heartbreak" and that they had a "newfound confidence." The music on their third release X&Y has been considered to be "ruminations on Martin's doubts, fears, hopes, and loves." It was particularly influenced by Johnny Cash and Kraftwerk. In Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends, the group's style was moving towards art rock, being influenced by Blur, Arcade Fire and My Bloody Valentine. The band experimented with different instruments including orchestras, honky-tonk pianos and so on. Mylo Xyloto carries the concept album format from the love and war-induced Viva la Vida. It also expands the spectrum by including electronic & acoustic elements, featuring upbeat tones for the first time and predominantly being a pop rock album, in stark contrast to the band's previous works. Lyrical influences were taken from graffiti and the German resistance group White Rose. Regarding the band's wide international success, Parlophone's president Miles Leonard has stated that one of Coldplay's "secrets" is that they have never sounded like a parochial UK artist, saying: "Some bands are very proud to be British, but sometimes come across as being very 'British'. Coldplay never aspire to that; on one hand they sound British but on the other they sound like a huge global artist." In 2011, Coldplay were hailed as 'rock statesmen'.. Despite their worldwide popularity, the band has remained protective of how their music is used in the media, refusing its use for product endorsements. In the past, Coldplay turned down multimillion-dollar contracts from Gatorade, Diet Coke, and Gap, who wanted to use the songs "Yellow", "Trouble", and "Don't Panic" respectively. According to frontman, Chris Martin, "We wouldn't be able to live with ourselves if we sold the songs' meanings like that." The song "Viva la Vida" was featured in a commercial for the iTunes Store, advertising its exclusive availability of the single as a digital download on iTunes. Additionally, Chris Martin appeared at an Apple Inc. Special Event on 1 September 2010, playing a number of songs, and also thanked Apple for their assistance in marketing "Viva la Vida". After the death of Steve Jobs, Coldplay performed four songs at Apple's Campus in Cupertino, further thanking Jobs for the support he gave them. Coldplay supports Amnesty International and performed for them at The Secret Policeman's Ball fundraiser in 2012. Martin is regarded as one of the most visible celebrity advocates for fair trade, supporting Oxfam's ongoing Make Trade Fair campaign. He has been on trips with Oxfam to assess conditions, has appeared in its advertising campaign, and is known for wearing a "Make Trade Fair" wristband during public appearances which was released on 20 February 2018 at the Ocean Plastics Crisis Summit in London. The motive of the album is to raise awareness and funds aiming to counter plastic pollution of the ocean.. * Chris Martin&nbsp;– lead vocals, piano, rhythm guitar, keyboards, harmonica Guy Berryman&nbsp;– bass, backing vocals, keyboards, mandolin, harmonica Jonny Buckland&nbsp;– lead guitar, backing vocals, keyboards, piano Will Champion&nbsp;– drums, percussion, backing vocals, guitar, piano, keyboards Phil Harvey&nbsp;– creative director . * Parachutes . * Parachutes Tour . Coldplay have won numerous music awards throughout their history, including an American Music Award, nine Brit Awards , six MTV Video Music Awards, seven MTV Europe Music Awards, three World Music Awards, seven Billboard Music Awards and seven Grammy Awards out of 29 nominations. 2009 was their most successful year having received seven Grammy Award nominations at the 51st Grammy Awards, and won three. Coldplay have sold over 100 million records worldwide.