Marshall Bruce Mathers III and a MTV Europe Music Global Icon Award. Eminem has had nine number-one albums on the Billboard 200, which all consecutively debuted at number one on the chart making him the only artist to achieve this, and five number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100. Rolling Stone included Eminem in their list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time..  Marshall Bruce Mathers III was born on October 17, 1972 in St. Joseph, Missouri, the only child of Marshall Bruce Mathers Jr. and Deborah Rae "Debbie" ". The song, also featuring Krizz Kaliko, was released on April 20. Eminem also appeared on Yelawolf's "Best Friend", the single from Love Story. Eminem is the executive producer of the soundtrack on the sports drama Southpaw, with Shady Records. The first single from the soundtrack called 'Phenomenal' was released on June 2, 2015. Another single, "Kings Never Die" by Eminem featuring Gwen Stefani, was released on July 10, 2015 on YouTube via Eminem's Vevo account. Eminem was the first interview of Zane Lowe in Beats 1. The interview streamed online on the Beats 1 radio on July 1, 2015. Eminem appeared on the public access show Only in Monroe, produced in Monroe, Michigan, and was interviewed by guest host Stephen Colbert for an episode that aired July 1, 2015. In the episode Eminem sang snippets of Bob Seger songs at Colbert's prompting and briefly discussed Southpaw. In June 2015, it was revealed that he will serve as the executive producer and music supervisor on the TV series Motor City whose premise will be based upon the 2002 film Narc. In September 2016, Eminem was featured on Skylar Grey's song, "Kill For You", which appears on her album, Natural Causes. On October 19, 2016, Eminem released a new song called "Campaign Speech", a political hip hop song, and announced he was working on a new album. On November 17, 2016, Eminem released a remastered version of 'Infinite' on his YouTube VEVO channel. On November 22, 2016, Eminem released a trailer for a 10-minute short documentary called Partners in Rhyme: The True Story of Infinite. In February 2017, Eminem appeared on "No Favors", a track from Big Sean's album I Decided. In the song, Eminem calls the newly elected President Donald Trump a "bitch", and also raps about raping conservative social and political commentator Ann Coulter, who is a Trump supporter, with a variety of foreign objects. Coulter responded to the lyrics, stating, "I think it's unfortunate that the left, from Berkeley to Eminem with his rap songs, has normalized violence against women, as Eminem has done." Eminem participated in the 2017 BET Hip Hop Awards' annual cypher, using his verse, a freestyle rap called "The Storm", to further criticize Trump and the administration for, among other things, Trump's focus on National Football League players' protests during "The Star Spangled Banner" over Hurricane Maria recovery efforts and lack of gun control reform in the wake of the 2017 Las Vegas shooting. Eminem ended the cypher by giving an ultimatum saying that Trump supporters cannot be his fans. The verse received wide praise among other rappers following its release. In October 2017, Eminem appeared on "Revenge", a track from Pink's album Beautiful Trauma. It was reported that the Secret Service interviewed Eminem in 2018-2019, regarding threatening lyrics towards President Trump and daughter Ivanka. Starting in late October, Eminem and Paul Rosenberg began teasing what fans speculated was the title of a new album titled Revival, in the form of advertisements for a fake medication of the same name. Later in November, the first single "Walk on Water" was released, which featured Beyoncé. The song was first performed, by Eminem, at the 2017 MTV Europe Music Awards on November 12, featuring Skylar Grey. He appeared on Saturday Night Live on November 18, performing "Walk on Water", "Stan" and "Love the Way You Lie" with Skylar Grey. On November 28, Dr. Dre posted a video confirming the album's release date as December 15, 2017. On December 8, Eminem released a promotional single titled "Untouchable" which featured a sample from the duo Cheech & Chong. Despite an online leak of the album two days prior, Revival was released as planned on December 15. On January 5, 2018, the second single "River" was released, which featured Ed Sheeran. It became Eminem's eighth consecutive album to top the US Billboard 200 upon release with 197,000 copies sold in its first week. As a result, he became the first musical act to have eight entries in a row debut atop the chart. The album was met with mixed reviews from music critics. In 2018, an extended edition of "Nowhere Fast" with Kehlani and a remix of "Chloraseptic" featuring 2 Chainz and Phresher were released from Revival. On August 31, 2018, Eminem released his previously unannounced tenth studio album Kamikaze, making it his second full-length studio album in 8 months. The album would top the Billboard 200, making it his ninth album in a row to do so, after selling 434,000 units in the first week. On December 1, Eminem released an 11 minute freestyle to his YouTube channel titled 'Kick off'. Eminem collaborated with several artists throughout early 2019, including Boogie, Logic, Ed Sheeran, 50 Cent, and Conway the Machine. On February 23, 2019, to celebrate its 20th anniversary, Eminem released a re-issue of The Slim Shady LP, including acapellas, instrumentals and radio edited versions of tracks from the album. On June 25, 2019, The New York Times Magazine listed Eminem among hundreds of artists whose material was reportedly destroyed in the 2008 Universal fire..  Eminem has cited several MCs as influencing his rapping style, including Esham, Kool G Rap, Masta Ace, Big Daddy Kane, Newcleus, Ice-T, Mantronix, Melle Mel to him, which he took offense to. The accomplished trumpeter Nicholas Payton has called Eminem "the Bix Beiderbecke of hip hop". Eminem and Christian hip hop artist KJ-52 have been compared to each other, with KJ-52 called his "Christian counterpart". KJ-52's single, "Dear Slim", was controversial with Eminem fans when it appeared on Total Request Live. Although he said the song was not intended to be disrespectful, KJ-52 received hate mail and the song was number 26 on VH1's Top 40 Worst Moments in Hip Hop list..  Eminem has been scrutinized, as a rapper and personally. He was married twice to Kimberly Anne "Kim" Scott. He met Kim in high school while he stood on a table with his shirt off rapping LL Cool J's "I'm Bad". Kim and her twin sister Dawn had run away from home; they moved in with Eminem and his mother when he was 15, and he began an on-and-off relationship with Kim in 1989. Their daughter Hailie was born on December 25, 1995. The two were married in 1999 and divorced in 2001. Although Eminem told Rolling Stone in 2002, "I would rather have a baby through my penis than get married again", he and Kim briefly remarried in January 2006. He filed for divorce in early April, agreeing to joint custody of Hailie. He also has custody of Dawn's daughter Alaina and Whitney, Kim's daughter from another relationship. In early 2010, Eminem denied tabloid reports that he and Kim had renewed their romantic relationship; however, in the same statement his representative also confirmed that they now maintain a friendly relationship. He had legal custody of his younger half-brother Nathan. In his 2014 song "Headlights", Eminem apologized to, and reiterated his love for his mother. In 1999, Eminem's mother sued him for about $10&nbsp;million for slandering her on The Slim Shady LP, receiving about $1,600 in damages in 2001. On June 3, 2000, Eminem was arrested during an altercation with Douglas Dail at a car-audio store in Royal Oak, Michigan, when he pulled out an unloaded gun and pointed it at the ground. The next day, in Warren, Michigan, he was arrested again for assaulting John Guerra in the parking lot of the Hot Rock Café when he saw him kissing his wife. Eminem recreated the Guerra assault in "The Kiss and explained "I don't know how to say this without saying it how I've said it a million times. But that word, those kind of words, when I came up battle-rappin' or whatever, I never really equated those words...". Eminem is widely considered one of the greatest hip-hop artists of all time. He was 83rd on Rolling Stones 100 Greatest Artists of All Time and 79th on the VH1 100 Greatest Artists of All Time lists. In 2010, MTV Portugal ranked Eminem the seventh-biggest icon in pop-music history. In 2012, The Source ranked him #6 on their list of the Top 50 Lyricists of All Time, while About.com ranked him #7 on its list of the 50 Greatest MCs of Our Time is one of Eminem's most critically acclaimed songs, with Pitchfork calling it "a cultural milestone".A number of artists have cited Eminem as an influence, including Regina Spektor, The Weeknd, Crooked I, Tech N9ne, Logic, Lil Wayne, Nicki Minaj, T.I., Camila Cabello, B.o.B, Jhené Aiko, 50 Cent, Usher, Earl Sweatshirt, Ab-Soul, Freddie Gibbs, Alec Benjamin, Kendrick Lamar, YBN Cordae, Ed Sheeran, Lana Del Rey, Big Sean, J. Cole, Skylar Grey, Bubba Sparxxx, Asher Roth, Phresher, BlocBoy JB, Machine Gun Kelly, Yelawolf, Hopsin, Tyler, the Creator, Hollywood Undead, Kiiara, Chris Webby, Yes-R, Russ, Charles Hamilton, Chance the Rapper, Jon Connor, Snow Tha Product, Stalley, Royce da 5'9", Sturgill Simpson, NF, Slim the Mobster, Joyner Lucas, Joe Budden, Tony Yayo, The Game, Juice WRLD, and BTS. Rappers David Banner, Tech N9ne, Hopsin, G-Eazy, Boosie Badazz, Wiz Khalifa, Kevin Gates, Slim the Mobster, Drake, 50 Cent, Talib Kweli, Kool G. Rap, Charles Hamilton, King Los, Logic, J. Cole, Redman, Kurupt, E-40, Dr. Dre, Ice Cube, Nas, Young Jeezy, N.O.R.E., Joe Budden, Ab-Soul, Big Sean, Kendrick Lamar, Fabolous, Jon Connor, Royce Da 5'9", Big Daddy Kane, Rakim, T.I., Gangsta Boo, Tyler, the Creator, Kanye West, Masta Ace, Bow Wow, Joyner Lucas, B-Real, Willie D, Busta Rhymes, Phresher, Akon, Stalley, The Game, Dave East, M.I Abaga, Chuck D, Joell Ortiz, King Lil G, Treach, Crooked I, Jadakiss, Fat Joe, Twista, Diddy, Tyga, Lil B, Lupe Fiasco, Cormega, Flavor Flav, Jim Jones, Remy Ma, B.o.B, Russ, Nick Cannon, The D.O.C., CeeLo Green, Pharoahe Monch, Ty Dolla Sign, Machine Gun Kelly, Yelawolf, and Jay-Z have each called Eminem one of the greatest rappers of all time.. Eminem won the 2002 Academy Award for Best Original Song for his song Lose Yourself, co-written with Jeff Bass and Luis Resto. His Academy Award win made him the first rapper to receive the award. Eminem has received fifteen Grammy Awards. "The Real Slim Shady" criticizes the awards in its second verse, with Eminem believing at the time that negative opinion of his material would prevent him from ever winning one. Eminem received the Global Icon Award at the 2013 MTV Europe Music Awards in Amsterdam. Eminem been praised for his "verbal energy" and lyrical quality and was ranked ninth on MTV's Greatest MCs of All Time list. In 2003, he was thirteenth on MTV's 22 Greatest Voices in Music list and 82nd on Rolling Stones Immortals list. In 2008, Vibe readers named Eminem the Best Rapper Alive..  After Eminem's Multi-Platinum record sales, Interscope offered him his own label; he and Paul Rosenberg founded Shady Records in late 1999. Eminem signed his Detroit collective, D12, and rapper Obie Trice to the label and signed 50 Cent in a 2002 joint venture with Dr. Dre's Aftermath label. In 2003, Eminem and Dr. Dre added Atlanta rapper Stat Quo to the Shady-Aftermath roster. DJ Green Lantern, Eminem's former DJ, was with Shady Records until a dispute related to the 50 Cent-Jadakiss feud forced him to leave the label. The Alchemist is currently Eminem's tour DJ. In 2005 Eminem signed another Atlanta rapper, Bobby Creekwater, and West Coast rapper Cashis to Shady Records. On December 5, 2006, the compilation album Eminem Presents: The Re-Up was released on Shady Records. The project began as a mixtape, but when Eminem found the material better than expected he released it as an album. The Re-Up was intended to introduce Stat Quo, Cashis and Bobby Creekwater. While he was recording Infinite, Eminem, Proof and Kon Artis assembled a group of fellow rappers now known as D12, short for "Detroit Twelve" or "Dirty Dozen", who performed in a style similar to Wu-Tang Clan. In 2001 D12's debut album, Devil's Night, was released. The first single from the album was "Shit on You", followed by "Purple Pills" share of his sound recording royalties.. Studio albums Infinite . As a headlinerThe Recovery Tour 