Enrique Martín Morales . In 2018, he portrayed Antonio D'Amico on The Assassination of Gianni Versace: American Crime Story for which he received a nomination for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited Series or Movie..  Martin was born on December 24, 1971, in San Juan, Puerto Rico, to Nereida Morales, an accountant, and Enrique Martín Negroni , and newcomer Jessie J in 2015; before leaving the show before the fifth series to focus on music commitments. Martin released his album A Quien Quiera Escuchar in February 2015. The album won the Grammy Award for Best Latin Pop Album, making this Martin's second Grammy win to date. It was announced on December 24, 2015 that he would not return to The Voice Australia in 2016 and will be replaced by Ronan Keating. On September 22, 2016, Martin released a new song "Vente Pa' Ca" with Colombian singer, Maluma. The song skyrocketed in music charts with over 1 billion views on the music video as of June 2017. In November 2016, Martin announced a Las Vegas residency show, All In, which began on April 4, 2017. In 2018, Martin portrayed Antonio D'Amico, partner of fashion designer Gianni Versace, in the second season of the true crime television series American Crime Story, subtitled The Assassination of Gianni Versace: American Crime Story. The show was praised but Martin's performance and characterization of D'Amico received mixed reception. Despite this, Martin was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Limited Series or Movie, his first ever nomination. "Fiebre", the first single of Martin's new musical production was released on February 23, 2018.. Martin possesses a tenor vocal range. Martin cites a variety of the Latin music genres as influences, including salsa, merengue, and bolero. He also is inspired by artists such as the Fania All-Stars, Celia Cruz, El Gran Combo de Puerto Rico, and Gilberto Santa Rosa, some of which his mother played for him as a child. Martin credits these musicians with helping him "appreciate the richness of island's culture." Some of Martin's additional influences include Michael Jackson, Cher, Madonna, Elvis Presley, Sting, Barbra Streisand and Daniel Day-Lewis.. Martin was raised Catholic but says he is open to all sorts of religious beliefs, especially the Buddhist philosophy. He feels that subscribing to a specific religion can "limit" an individual in certain aspects, and noted in 2006, "I really like the Buddhist philosophy but that doesn't mean that I am of the religion. If I subscribe to Buddhism, I can't be of anything else...I am not going to follow those rules." Martin began practicing yoga after a trip to Thailand in 1997. In November 2011, he acquired Spanish nationality in recognition of his artistic talents and for having roots in the country – Martin's grandmother is Spanish, and he owns a residence in Madrid. In September 2011, he sold his home in Miami. In a public statement, written in Spanish, Martin explicitly stated that he has not abandoned his Puerto Rican identity: "I was born in Puerto Rico, I am a Puerto Rican, and Puerto Rico is my homeland. I made the request for Spanish citizenship some time ago, I was just waiting for a response. This step is part of planning for the future within a global community of whom I am part. Spain is a country with which I share many memories and strong ties born of my roots and the love they have given me since I first visited." In January 2013, he relocated to Sydney, Australia to accommodate his position on The Voice Australia. In 2018, he relocated permanently to Los Angeles, California. Martin was in an on-off platonic relationship with Mexican TV host Rebecca de Alba for more than 14&nbsp;years. The pair had spoken of starting a family together, and Martin had at one point considered proposing to her. In August 2008, Martin became the father of twin boys, Matteo and Valentino, born by a gestational surrogate mother. After the success of "Livin' la Vida Loca," Martin's personal life became a subject of interest due to his large gay following, and he was questioned about his sexual orientation. In a December 2000 interview with The Mirror, he was asked to comment on the rumors surrounding his sexuality. He replied: "I don't think I should have to tell anyone if I am gay or not, or who I've slept with or not." In 2010, Barbara Walters expressed some regret for pushing Martin in a 2000 interview to admit if he was gay. The Toronto Star quoted her as saying, "When I think back on it now, I feel it was an inappropriate question." On March 29, 2010, Martin publicly came out as gay in a post on his official website, stating: "I am proud to say that I am a fortunate homosexual man. I am very blessed to be who I am." Martin said that "these years in silence and reflection made me stronger and reminded me that acceptance has to come from within, and that this kind of truth gives me the power to conquer emotions I didn't even know existed." Also in 2010, Martin said that for many years he thought he was bisexual, telling Oprah Winfrey that "I felt it with a woman, I felt passion and it felt good. And I'm sure I'm not the only gay man that felt attraction towards women...Sometimes I really did fall in love with women, for many years I did." He announced on The Oprah Winfrey Show that he was in a relationship. In 2011, during his acceptance speech of the Vito Russo Award at the 22nd GLAAD Media Awards, Martin publicly thanked his boyfriend, Carlos González Abella, an economist. His relationship with González Abella ended in January 2014. In 2012, during an interview with Spanish Vanity Fair, Martin stated, "I don’t regret anything, any of the relationships I've lived. They taught me a lot, both men and women equally." In 2016, he stated that he is attracted to both men and women, but, because he is only interested in romantic relationships with men, he does not identify as bisexual. "I know that I like both men and women, I'm against sexual labels, we are simply human beings with emotional and sexual needs," he stated in an interview with the Mexican magazine Fama! He added that "I am gay, men fascinate me, but I like to enjoy sex in total freedom, so I'm open to having sex with a woman if I feel desire." Martin has also expressed support for same-sex marriage in an interview on Larry King Live. Martin delivered a speech at the United Nations Homophobia Conference on November 12, 2012. Beginning April 2016, he started dating Jwan Yosef, a Syrian-Swedish painter of Kurdish and Armenian descent. The two announced their engagement on November 16, 2016, while on the Ellen DeGeneres Show. In January 2018, Martin announced that he and Yosef are married. On December 31, 2018, Martin and Yosef announced, via Instagram, the birth of their daughter Lucía Martin-Yosef. On February 2018, in an interview with E. Alex Jung of Vulture, Martin discussed working on The Assassination of Gianni Versace: American Crime Story as Antonio D'Amico and how he wanted his portrayal to help resolve_coreferences open relationships. In 2019, while accepting an award during a human rights dinner in Washington DC, Martin announced he and his husband are expecting their fourth child together and on October 29, 2019, Martin and Yosef announced, via Instagram, the birth of their son Renn Martin-Yosef..  Martin is the founder of Fundación Ricky Martin , a campaign which is aimed to facilitate prevention of human trafficking, protection of the youngest victims of child trafficking, and prosecution of the traffickers. For his work against human trafficking, the United States Department of State named Martin one of its Heroes in Ending Modern-Day Slavery in 2005. The Ricky Martin Foundation was founded by Ricky Martin, with the mission to advocate for the well-being of children around the world. Martin was a headliner in the 2001 inauguration celebration for President George W. Bush; he even invited the newly elected president to join him on stage to dance. Photographs of this moment were broadcast throughout the world, and Martin wrote about it in his song "Asignatura Pendiente". Martin's view of President Bush changed over the Iraq War, as expressed in his declaration to the Associated Press that he will "always condemn war and those who promulgate it." During his appearance at the Billboard Latin Music Awards on April 29, 2010, Martin expressed his disagreement with the Arizona SB 1070 bill, a proposed law that would have required police officers to request documents from individuals whom they suspected to be illegal immigrants.. *See also: Ricky Martin . *1985: The Love Boat . *Les Misérables , Broadway&nbsp;– Ché. * Ricky Martin Tour . Ricky Martin has received numerous awards, including 2 Grammy Awards, 4 Latin Grammy Awards, 5 MTV Video Music Awards, 3 Billboard Music Awards, 9 Billboard Latin Music Awards, 2 American Music Awards, 2 Latin American Music Awards, 8 World Music Awards and has been Emmy-nominated.Martin was chosen along with Félix Trinidad in 1999, to lead Puerto Rico's worldwide tourism campaign, both exemplifying Puerto Rico's youthfulness, enthusiasm and indefatigable character.In February 2004, Martin received the Excellence Award at the Lo Nuestro Awards in Miami.Martin was honored as the 2006 Latin Recording Academy Person of the Year by the Latin Recording Academy on November 1, 2006. He was chosen for his accomplishments as a world-renowned entertainer, consummate performer and passionate humanitarian. A portion of the proceeds from the evening's tribute dinner was used for benefitting Ricky Martin's charitable efforts.On October 16, 2007, Martin received the 2351st Hollywood Walk of Fame star, shortly after receiving the key to the city of Miami Beach, Florida on October 11. The star is located beside the Hollywood and Highland complex. Los Angeles mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and Rita Moreno were invited to the unveiling ceremony.In 2011, Martin was awarded Spanish citizenship to honor his contributions to the arts.