Proposition 218 was an adopted initiative constitutional amendment which revolutionized local and regional government finance in California. Called the "Right to Vote on Taxes Act," it was sponsored by the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association as a constitutional follow-up to the landmark property tax reduction initiative constitutional amendment, Proposition 13, approved in 1978. Proposition 218 amended the California Constitution by adding Article XIII C and Article XIII D. Article XIII C added constitutional voter approval requirements for all local government taxes which previously did not exist. Also included is a provision significantly expanding the constitutional local initiative power by voters to reduce or repeal any local government tax, assessment, fee or charge, subject to a significantly reduced signature requirement making ballot qualification easier. Article XIII D added constitutional assessment and property-related fee reforms applicable to all local governments which also previously did not exist. This includes numerous additional requirements for special benefit assessments on real property as well as numerous requirements for property-related fees and charges, such as utility fees imposed by local governments which are no longer allowed to exceed the cost of providing the utility service. Proposition 218 is listed as one of the most significant laws of the 20th Century in California. Proposition 218 was the first successful initiative constitutional amendment in California history to add more than one article to the California Constitution, as well as to alter the scope of the constitutional initiative power. Proposition 218 was drafted by constitutional attorneys and Jack Cohen.. Proposition 218 was considered a sleeper measure by the media as local governments were prohibited from using public funds and resources to campaign against it, and because greater media attention had been given to the Proposition 209 ban on affirmative action and the Proposition 215 medical marijuana initiative measures which appeared on the same election ballot. Proposition 218 was initially estimated to cost local governments in California at least $100 million per year with long-term cost estimates being much greater in the billions of dollars per year, and Moody's Investors Service warned the initiative measure would cause "significantly declining credit quality." The credit ratings issue became so heated during the Proposition 218 election campaign that the California State Treasurer, in an effort to calm the municipal bond market, took the extraordinary step of warning measure opponents against exaggerating the possible negative impacts on local government credit ratings and bond issuances when discussing Proposition 218. Like Proposition 13 in 1978, Proposition 218 was opposed by the vast majority of prominent newspapers and the political establishment. Opposition to Proposition 218 included public employee unions, local governments, local government interest organizations, environmental interest groups, public education interest groups, and private business firms that underwrite municipal bonds. Of the total campaign contributions received against Proposition 218, 74% came from public employee unions, and those interests contributing $10,000 or more represented 91% of the total contributions received by the Proposition 218 opposition campaign. Also similar to Proposition 13, there were dire predictions from the measure opponents, especially local government officials, regarding what would happen if Proposition 218 were to be approved by the voters. Some examples included: Expensive landscaping would die and become fodder for devastating fires. Silicon Valley would be shut down forever. Parks, senior centers, and other public buildings would shut down. Neighborhoods would no longer be safe. The initiative would immediately have a devastating effect on local government finance. The initiative would force local governments to go back decades and destroy their method of service delivery. The initiative would be a mortal threat to fire safety. The supporters of Proposition 218 focused on the primary benefit that voters would have the constitutional right to vote on local government taxes. Proposition 218 supporters also urged voters to review their property tax bill which would confirm the growing list of property-related fees, charges and special assessments imposed by local governments without voter approval. Proposition 218 passed with 56.55% support statewide, representing a margin of victory of 13.1 percentage points. Proposition 218 passed in 54 in those districts. For the 2019–20 Legislative Session, Proposition 218 passed in 79% of the legislative districts held by Democrats and in 100% of the legislative districts held by Republicans. Proposition 218 received 62% support in the 26 California counties with a Republican voter registration advantage and 54% support in the 32 California counties with a Democratic voter registration advantage during the November 1996 statewide election. What made the Proposition 218 victory so unusual was that it was behind in nearly all the polls, especially final polls just before the election. Polling from the Proposition 218 opposition campaign revealed the measure was expected to lose by about 15 percentage points. Proposition 218 was also significantly behind in the final with only 36% support from likely voters. Proposition 218 ended up winning by 13 percentage points. The large variation between the final polling numbers and the election results was a politically rare event for statewide initiative measures in California.. Section 3 of Proposition 218 added Article XIII C to the California Constitution. Article XIII C relates primarily to local government taxes, including applicable voter approval requirements. Section 1 of Article XIII C contains definitions applicable to the article. Section 1 definitions include the term "local government" setting forth the public entities subject to the article. The term "local government" for purposes of Proposition 218 is very broadly defined to counter a previous narrow interpretation given by the California Supreme Court under Proposition 13 which created loopholes allowing some local agencies to circumvent constitutional voter approval requirements for taxes. Government entities subject to Proposition 218 are local and regional governments, including counties, cities, a city and county, school districts, community college districts, public authorities, joint powers agencies, and special districts such as water or fire districts. The "local government" definition also expressly states that it includes charter cities having a local charter must come from an independent legal source such as a statute enacted by the California Legislature, and may be subject to additional statutory restrictions. The California Supreme Court has held that a local government must comply with any applicable statutory requirements as well as the constitutional requirements under Proposition 218. An example of an additional statutory restriction is a supermajority vote requirement of the governing body of the local government to place a local tax measure on the ballot. Another example of an additional statutory restriction is that many parcel taxes must be applied uniformly to all taxpayers or real property. Under Proposition 218, taxes proposed by a local government may either be temporary or permanent. If a tax is temporary, voter approval is required to extend a tax beyond its expiration date. Permanent local government taxes continue for an indefinite period of time. However, such taxes can be reduced or repealed by either subsequent action of the local governing body itself or by the voters exercising the local initiative power under Proposition 218. Some ballot questions may not specify the duration of a tax, including if a proposed tax would be permanent. In such situations, either the impartial ballot measure summary and/or the full text of the tax measure will specify the duration of a proposed tax. Generally, if no tax duration is specified in the ballot question, the proposed tax is usually permanent. The Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association states that some local governments, in an effort to increase the chances of passing a tax, will propose a temporary tax instead of a permanent tax. The general strategy is once a temporary tax passes, it will be easier for the local government to either extend or increase an already existing tax in the future. Based on historical election statistics, once local government voters pass a "temporary" tax, it is generally easier to obtain subsequent voter approval for a tax extension or a tax increase. The Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association also states that local governments rarely allow temporary taxes to expire on their own without at least an effort to extend and/or increase the tax, and that voters should assume that any proposed temporary tax will not end at the specified expiration date, but will instead either be extended for an additional period of years or be made permanent.. Local government issues related to Proposition 218 elections can impact the integrity and fairness of the election process. Local governments frequently conduct opinion polling of their voters before deciding whether to place a local tax measure on the ballot. Opinion polls may also be conducted in connection with other revenue sources requiring an election under Proposition 218 such as for a property-related fee or charge or an assessment on real property. The expenditure of public funds to conduct opinion polls is generally permissible under California law. The use of public funds to conduct opinion polling concerning a local tax proposal becomes more controversial when the poll also includes questions of a political nature ordinarily utilized in a subsequent election campaign before a tax proposal is placed on the ballot. Some voters may question the appropriateness of local governments spending public funds on opinion polling in connection with a local tax measure, especially if the polling results are subsequently used for political purposes during the election campaign to increase the chances of a local tax being approved by the voters. If this occurs, often the only practical remedy available to voters is to make the matter a political issue during the tax measure election campaign which can adversely impact the chances of the local tax measure being approved by the voters. Local governments are legally prohibited from spending public funds and resources to campaign in support of tax measures required to be submitted to the voters under Proposition 218, but local governments are allowed to expend public funds to engage in "informational" campaigns that educate voters about such tax measures. California courts have generally been lenient in allowing local governments to engage in informational campaigns in connection with local tax measures. Some voters may question the appropriateness of local governments spending taxpayer funds on informational campaigns in connection with local tax measures, particularly when the intent and practical effect of such informational campaigns is to increase the chances of a local tax measure being approved by the voters. When questionable or controversial informational campaigns occur, often the only practical remedy available is to make such informational campaigns a political issue during the tax measure political campaign which can adversely impact the chances of the local tax measure being approved by voters. The Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association has released a document to assist taxpayers in matters relating to campaign spending by a local government. Local governments in California are generally allowed to write the ballot question for tax elections required under Proposition 218. The ballot question is the actual text that appears on the election ballot when voters cast their vote on a tax measure. How the ballot question is written can affect the outcome of a tax election. Issues often arise concerning the impartiality of ballot questions prepared by local governments that support tax measures they submit to the voters. California courts have generally allowed local governments significant leeway in preparing tax election ballot questions. Ballot questions can sometimes be misleading to many voters or may include incomplete information regarding the specifics of a tax measure. Local governments also sometimes "poll test" their ballot questions in an effort to further increase the chances of passing a tax measure. This process involves conducting polling before officially calling an election to determine the specific ballot measure language that yields the highest level of voter support. When controversial ballot questions are prepared by local governments, often the only practical remedy available to voters is to make the controversial ballot question a political issue during the tax measure political campaign, including informing voters about the specifics of the ballot controversy. Effective January 1, 2018, if a proposed local government measure imposes a tax or raises the rate of a tax, the ballot must include in the statement of the measure to be voted on the amount of money to be raised annually, the rate of the tax, and the duration of the tax to be levied. The statement of the tax measure must be a true and impartial synopsis of the purpose of the proposed tax measure, and must be in language that is neither argumentative nor likely to create prejudice for or against the tax measure. The statement requirement applies regardless of whether the tax measure is proposed by the local governing body or is submitted to the local voters as an initiative or referendum measure. The voter approval requirements for local taxes under Proposition 218 are mandatory. Local politicians place tax measures on the ballot for voter approval not by a voluntary choice in support of protecting local taxpayers, but rather in response to the constitutional mandates of Proposition 218. Furthermore, when local politicians vote to place a local tax measure on the ballot, they are also approving that tax on the merits. This is typically done in the form of a local ordinance or resolution approving the tax. However, the tax approval does not become effective unless and until approved by the voters. Local politicians sometimes claim they are merely "letting the voters decide" when they vote on a tax proposal that would levy a new tax, a tax increase, or a tax extension. However, this is generally done by local politicians in an effort to avoid political accountability for supporting a tax on the merits.. Voter/taxpayer issues related to Proposition 218 elections can impact the individual voter decision-making process as well as election outcomes. If a tax is proposed by a local government, it is important to consider the budgetary conditions that led to placing the tax measure on the ballot. As public employee salary and benefit obligations increase over time, particularly with regard to pensions and public employee retiree healthcare, the impacts on the local government budget become more significant and can even lead to bankruptcy. Local politicians end up having to reduce public services and/or raise taxes or other revenues such as fees and charges. To the extent that taxes are raised, the tax proceeds will generally either directly or indirectly pay for public employee salary and benefit obligations. Research has shown that many local tax increases are concentrated in California communities that have the largest public employee pension problems. Some local governments may also claim a lack of sufficient funding for priority programs and services such as public safety. This is intended to make a tax proposal more politically attractive. The California Constitution mandates that the "protection of the public safety is the first responsibility of local government and local officials have an obligation to give priority to the provision of adequate public safety services." This constitutional obligation exists regardless of whether a local tax measure is approved by voters. Some local government tax proposals may be relatively modest in amount, but when added to other taxes currently paid would result in a cumulative tax burden that may be unacceptably high. This is especially the case concerning regressive parcel taxes that disproportionately burden homeowners. Before voting on any local government property tax measure made by the member local governments. It is common for local governments to spend significant amounts of public funds to lobby for or against proposed legislation that is contrary to the best interests of taxpayers, including supporting legislation that would erode taxpayer protections such as Propositions 13 and 218. Local governments seeking voter approval for a tax frequently claim a lack of public funding as a basis for proposing the tax. To the extent a local government spends significant public funds on lobbying activities in support of legislation that would erode or otherwise weaken taxpayer protections, this can become a significant campaign issue in a Proposition 218 local tax election. Local tax measures typically have well organized and funded support, especially from local public employee unions and frequently from the area business community. Business groups such as the Bay Area Council, the Silicon Valley Leadership Group, and the Los Angeles Area Chamber of Commerce frequently support local tax measures that disproportionately burden ordinary taxpayers, especially local sales taxes and local parcel taxes. Business interests that stand to financially benefit from the passage of a local tax measure also frequently make significant campaign contributions in support of such measures. The ballot arguments contained in the official ballot pamphlet sent to voters are usually the only opportunity for the opponents of a local government tax levy to reach all voters. There is a specified word limit for arguments which is generally set by statute. Arguments must also be accurate and not misleading to avoid a successful legal challenge. Any procedures applicable to the filing of arguments must also be followed. Ballot arguments must generally be filed early in the election process. As a result, it is important for interested voters to find out about the applicable deadlines for filing ballot arguments shortly following the decision by a local government to place a tax measure on the ballot. Ballot argument filing deadlines and requirements can generally be obtained from the local elections official conducting the tax election.. One of the most significant provisions of Proposition 218 constitutionally reserves to local voters the exercise of the initiative power to reduce or repeal any local tax, assessment, fee or charge. The local initiative power under Proposition 218 is a powerful tool available to voters, particularly when local government officials are not responsive to their constituents in matters relating to local taxes, assessments, fees and charges. The specific constitutional language applicable to the local initiative power under Proposition 218 provides: The local initiative power under Proposition 218 is also subject to a significantly reduced signature requirement which cannot exceed the requirement applicable to statewide statutory initiatives. The specific maximum signature requirement under Proposition 218 is five percent . The California Legislative Analyst's Office stated that, based on the actual constitutional language of the initiative power provision, the only limits appear to be those under federal law. However, the scope of the local initiative power under Proposition 218 has yet to be fully determined by the California Supreme Court.. Section 4 of Proposition 218 added Article XIII D to the California Constitution. Article XIII D relates primarily to special assessments on real property and property-related fees and charges. Section 1 of Article XIII D specifies that its provisions apply to all special assessments and property-related fees and charges irrespective of whether such levies are imposed pursuant to state statute or local charter authority. This makes it clear that Article XIII D applies to charter cities in California. Section 1 further specifies that nothing in Proposition 218 provides any new authority to any local government to impose any tax, special assessment, or property-related fee or charge. This means that the legal authority to impose a local tax, special assessment, or property-related fee or charge must come from an independent legal source such as a state statute or a local city charter provision. Section 1 also specifies two types of laws that are not affected by Proposition 218. First, existing laws relating to the imposition of fees or charges as a condition of property development are generally subject to reduction or repeal using the local initiative power under Proposition 218, including the thereunder. This provides local voters with a legislative remedy to address electrical or gas service utility fees and charges imposed by a local public agency that are considered excessive or unreasonable. As an example, the local initiative power under Proposition 218 could be used to reduce electrical service fees and charges in situations where a local public agency such as a city transfers substantial utility fee or charge revenues to the general fund of the local public agency, whether done as legally allowable "profit" or as reimbursement for questionable services rendered to the utility by the local public agency. Once transferred to the general fund of a local public agency, the utility revenue proceeds can generally be spent at the complete discretion of local politicians.. Section 4 of Article XIII D contains detailed procedures and requirements applicable to special benefit assessments on real property. The assessment procedures and requirements are designed to ensure that any special assessment levied by an agency is a legitimate special assessment. Proposition 218 also requires an agency to have a vote of the affected property owners revises the methodology by which the assessment is calculated, if that revision results in an increased amount being levied on any parcel. An assessment is not "increased" in the case in which the actual payments from a parcel are higher than would have resulted when the agency approved the assessment, if those higher payments are attributable to events other than an increased assessment rate or revised methodology, such as a change in the density, intensity, or nature of the use of land. Although assessments exempt under Section 5 are not subject to the assessment approval process contained in Article XIII D, the local initiative power under Proposition 218, including the thereunder, can generally be used to reduce or repeal an exempt assessment since that power expressly applies to assessments. The only exception would likely be for the bonded indebtedness exemption where a violation of the Contract Impairment Clause of the United States Constitution would occur if the local initiative power under Proposition 218 were exercised to reduce or repeal an assessment subject to that particular exemption.. Section 6 of Article XIII D contains the detailed procedures and requirements applicable to property-related fees and charges. These procedures and requirements are designed to ensure that any property-related fee or charge levied by a local agency is a legitimate fee or charge and not an unlawful tax imposed without voter approval. The property-related fee and charge provisions only apply if a fee or charge is "property-related" under the definition contained in Proposition 218. Some property-related fees or charges are levied upon parcels and appear on the annual property tax bill sent to property owners while other property-related fees or charges are levied upon persons and may be paid by a tenant instead of the property owner. If a fee or charge is not "property-related" under Proposition 218, it may be subject to voter approval as a "tax" under Proposition 26 which California voters approved in 2010. Proposition 26 amended Proposition 218 by adding a broad constitutional definition of a "tax" for purposes of determining the scope of levies subject to the voter approval requirement for local taxes under Proposition 218. Property-related fees or charges may only be levied for "property-related services." A "property-related service" is a public service having a direct relationship to property ownership. Some of the more common property-related fees or charges levied by local agencies include utility fees for ongoing domestic water, sanitary sewer, refuse collection services, stormwater fees, and flood control fees. Groundwater augmentation fees imposed upon persons are generally no longer deemed property-related fees or charges but rather are subject to protections under Proposition 26. The type of property-related service involved as well as whether the property-related fee or charge is new, increased, or already existing determines to what extent a levy is subject to the various procedures and requirements contained in Section 6 of Article XIII D, including whether an election is required. Starting July 1, 1997, all property-related fees or charges must comply with Section 6 of Article XIII D. When an agency "increases" a property-related fee or charge, compliance with the property-related fee or charge process under Proposition 218 is required. The California Legislature adopted a statute interpreting the term "increase" as applied to property-related fees or charges. However, the courts have final say in interpreting when a property-related fee or charge is "increased" under Proposition 218. A property-related fee or charge is "increased" for purposes of Proposition 218 when an agency makes a decision that does any of the following: stormwater fees and charges imposed without voter approval can generally be reduced or repealed by the voters using the local initiative power under Proposition 218, including the thereunder. In addition, if any new or increased stormwater fee or charge is imposed by a local government without complying with the election requirement under Proposition 218, such as by a local government relying on to evade the constitutional election requirement applicable to stormwater fees and charges, as a political remedy that fee or charge may also be reduced or repealed by the voters using the local initiative power under Proposition 218, including the thereunder. This can be done as an alternative to, or concurrent with, any legal remedy for noncompliance with any applicable election requirement under Proposition 218. After property owner or voter approval of a property-related fee or charge, the local initiative power under Proposition 218 can also generally be used by the electorate to reduce or repeal a stormwater levy. An example of where such a local initiative may be appropriate involves election issues or controversies associated with a property owner election, particularly where the local government adopted controversial election procedures. Should a property-related fee or charge reduction or repeal initiative qualify for the ballot, the initiative election would be by the registered voters since the initiative power is a power applicable to the electors. Prior to Proposition 218, the courts allowed local agencies significant flexibility in determining fee or charge amounts. In lawsuits challenging fees or charges, the challenger generally had the burden to show that they were not legal. However, Proposition 218 shifted the burden of demonstrating compliance to the local agency in any lawsuit challenging a property-related fee or charge. In any legal action contesting the validity of a property-related fee or charge, the burden is on the local agency to demonstrate compliance with the procedures and requirements applicable to property-related fees and charges. This change in the law makes it significantly easier for taxpayers to win a legal challenge involving a property-related fee or charge under Proposition 218. The independent standard of review for property assessments adopted by the California Supreme Court in the landmark Silicon Valley Taxpayers case also applies to legal challenges involving property-related fees and charges. As a result, California courts now exercise their independent judgment in determining whether a property-related fee or charge violates Proposition 218. The independent standard of review makes it significantly easier for taxpayers to win legal challenges involving property-related fees and charges.. Proposition 218 expressly applies to regional governments in California under its broad "local government" constitutional definition. This means that regional governments must comply with the voter approval requirements for taxes as well as the procedures and requirements applicable to special assessments and property-related fees and charges. Regional government can also take the form of delivering government services and programs from the state level down to the regional level. An example would be a state administered water program limited to the Central Valley region of California. If a separate regional governmental agency is involved, the agency will generally be subject to Proposition 218. However, when a separate regional governmental agency is not involved, it is unclear whether Proposition 218 compliance is required as California courts have yet to resolve this issue. There is a growing trend in California to address public policy issues on a regional basis. From the perspective of taxpayers and voters voting on a regional governmental levy , significant accountability concerns can arise. Depending upon the laws creating a regional governmental agency, the governing body may not be directly elected by the voters of the region. In many instances, the governing body members of a regional governmental agency are appointed. If the governing body of a regional governmental agency is not directly elected by voters of the region, political accountability issues often arise regarding the expenditure of public funds derived from a regional governmental levy. This is because there is no provision for directly electing members of the governing body. In addition, if the governing body members of a regional governmental agency are not directly elected, the recall power is also not available to remove those members from the regional governing body. In the foregoing situation, if any expenditure problems were to occur after approval of a regional governmental levy, voters will not be able to vote any problem governing body members out of office as a political accountability mechanism. As an accountability mechanism, a regional governmental levy can generally be reduced or repealed using the local initiative power under Proposition 218, including the thereunder. However, even with the significantly reduced signature requirement, qualifying an initiative for a regional levy will generally be more difficult because of the large number of voters involved.. Levies imposed by the State of California are generally not subject to Proposition 218 because the state is not a "local government" under Article XIII C or an "agency" under Article XIII D. While state taxes are not subject to Proposition 218, such taxes are generally subject to approval by two-thirds of all members of the California Legislature. The preceding requirement for state taxes was adopted when Proposition 13 was approved by California voters in 1978. Proposition 26, approved by California voters in 2010, added a broad constitutional definition of "tax" applicable to the state with the resulting effect of expanding the scope of state levies subject to two-thirds approval by the California Legislature. Special assessments on real property as well as property-related fees and charges, the types of levies ordinarily subject to Proposition 218, are generally not levied by the state. To the extent such levies may be imposed by the State of California, whether two-thirds legislative approval is required is determined by the provisions of Proposition 26 approved in 2010. There may exist limited instances in which levies imposed by the State of California might be subject to Proposition 218. Under Proposition 218, the definition of a "special district" refers to "an agency of the State, formed pursuant to general law or a special act, for the local performance of governmental or proprietary functions with limited geographic boundaries." Accordingly, some state agencies are subject to Proposition 218 when they are a "special district." While a state agency imposing a levy at the state level is not a "special district," such an agency may be a "local or regional governmental entity" under the broad definition of a "local government," and thereby be subject to Proposition 218 if the levy is imposed within limited geographic boundaries as opposed to being imposed on a statewide basis. An example is a state levy imposed solely within the Central Valley region of California. Another example is a state levy imposed solely within the boundaries of a local government in situations where the state has taken partial or complete control over the local government and is exercising powers ordinarily exercised by the local government. Under Proposition 218, any real property within an assessment district that is owned or used by the State of California is generally not exempt from assessment. As a result, the State of California must pay its fair share of any special assessment on real property lawfully levied pursuant to Proposition 218. The State of California is also entitled to vote in assessment ballot proceedings required by Proposition 218. The State of California is also entitled to Proposition 218 protections applicable to property-related fees and charges. This includes rights to receive written notice and protest a property-related fee or charge, the five requirement safeguards applicable to property-related fees and charges , and the right to vote if a property owner election is held for a property-related fee or charge. The California Department of General Services is required to develop compliance standards in the State Administrative Manual to inform owners of state property in California of their duties and responsibilities under Proposition 218. Under the State Administrative Manual, all state agencies are required to determine that, with respect to state properties for which an assessment is levied by a local government, the applicable assessment district was properly constituted pursuant to law and that the requisite special benefit is present. If the assessment is valid, then the state agency which owns or controls the property must promptly pay its proportionate share of the assessment.. Section 5 of Proposition 218 contains a liberal interpretation provision constitutionally commanding that its provisions be "liberally construed to effectuate its purposes of limiting local government revenue and enhancing taxpayer consent." The liberal interpretation provision is legally binding on all California courts , the California Legislature, government agencies, and government officials and employees in their interpretation and application of Proposition 218. The liberal interpretation provision has positively affected the outcome of numerous Proposition 218 lawsuits when it has been applied by the courts as intended. The importance and significance of the liberal interpretation provision under Proposition 218 can be traced to prior adverse judicial interpretations of Proposition 13 strictly construing important provisions of that initiative measure. In two leading cases in 1982, the California Supreme Court, headed by controversial Chief Justice Rose Bird, formulated and applied a special rule of interpretation applicable only to Proposition 13 that strictly construed the circumstances in which local governments must get two-thirds voter approval to approve local tax increases. This had the practical effect of the courts significantly limiting the scope of Proposition 13. The California Supreme Court majority reasoned that due to the "fundamentally undemocratic nature" of a two-thirds vote supermajority requirement, the applicable voter approval requirement for local taxes under Proposition 13 must be strictly construed. This special rule of interpretation was not consistent with the usual interpretation of initiative measures, and has not been applied by the California Supreme Court in circumstances other than Proposition 13 where a supermajority vote is required in an initiative measure. As a result of the two-thirds voter approval requirement for local taxes under Proposition 13 being strictly construed, local governments in California were able to impose many local tax increases with either simple majority voter approval or no voter approval at all. The resulting adverse impact frustrated the effective tax relief provisions of Proposition 13 to the significant detriment of California taxpayers, especially homeowners. The special strict construction rule of interpretation also provided a legal basis for California courts to narrowly and strictly interpret the circumstances in which nontax levies such as property assessments, fees, and charges were in reality special taxes subject to two-thirds voter approval under Proposition 13.