John Demjanjuk was a Ukrainian-American accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity carried out while serving as a guard at Nazi extermination camps during World War II. Legal cases surrounding his participation in the Holocaust began during the 1970s and continued until his death in 2012. Born in 1920 in Ukraine, Demjanjuk was conscripted into the Soviet Red Army in 1940. He fought in World War II and was taken prisoner by the Germans in the Spring of 1942. He served as a guard at the Sobibor extermination camp and at least two concentration camps. In 1952, he emigrated from West Germany to the United States. He took up residence in Cleveland, Ohio, where he worked in an auto factory until his retirement. In August 1977, Demjanjuk was accused of having been a Trawniki man, and based on eyewitness testimony by Holocaust survivors, he was identified as the notorious and savagely violent Treblinka extermination camp guard "Ivan the Terrible". These accusations culminated in Demjanjuk's extradition to Israel in 1986. In 1988, Demjanjuk was convicted and sentenced to death. He maintained his innocence throughout the trial, claiming that it was a case of mistaken identity, and in 1993 the verdict was overturned by the Israeli Supreme Court, based on new evidence that cast reasonable doubt over the identity of "Ivan the Terrible". Although the judges agreed that there was sufficient evidence to show that Demjanjuk had served at Sobibor, Israel declined to prosecute, and in September 1993 Demjanjuk returned to Ohio. In 1999, US prosecutors again sought to deport Demanjajuk for having been a concentration camp guard, with his citizenship revoked in 2002. In 2009, Germany requested his extradition for over 27,900 counts of acting as an accessory to murder: one for each person killed at Sobibor during the time he was alleged to have served as a guard there. He was deported from the US to Germany in that same year. On 12 May 2011, he was convicted and sentenced to five years in prison. According to historian Lawrence Douglas, in spite of the serious missteps along the way, the German verdict brought the case "to a worthy and just conclusion". After the conviction, Demjanjuk was released pending appeal. He lived at a German nursing home in Bad Feilnbach, where he died on 17 March 2012. Having died before a final judgment on his appeal could be issued, by German law he is still presumed innocent.. Demjanjuk was born in Dubovi Makharyntsi, a farming village in the western part of Soviet Ukraine. He grew up during the Holodomor famine, and later worked as a tractor driver in a Soviet collective farm. He reportedly got along well with the Jewish families living nearby. In 1940 he was drafted to the Red Army. After a battle in Eastern Crimea he was taken prisoner by the Germans and was held in a camp for Soviet prisoners of war diesel engine mechanic at the nearby Ford automobile factory where a friend from Regensburg, Germany had found work. His wife started working at a General Electric facility, and the two had two more children. On 14&nbsp;November 1958, Demjanjuk became a naturalized citizen of the United States.. In 1975, Michael Hanusiak, an editor of Ukrainian News, presented a list of ethnic Ukrainians living in the United States suspected of collaborating with Germans in World War II to the US Immigration and Naturalization Service Law of 1950 for crimes allegedly committed at Treblinka. Demjanjuk appealed his extradition with the case heard on 8&nbsp;July 1985. Demjanjuk's defense attorneys claimed that the evidence against him had been manufactured by the KGB, that Demjanjuk was never at Treblinka, and that the court had no authority to consider Israel's request for extradition. The appeals court found probable cause that Demjanjuk "committed murders of uncounted numbers of prisoners" and allowed the extradition to take place. The United States Supreme Court declined to hear Demjanjuk's appeal on February 25, 1986, allowing the extradition to move forward. Demjanjuk was deported to Israel on 28&nbsp;February 1986.. Demjanjuk's trial took place in the Jerusalem District Court between 26&nbsp;November 1986 and 18&nbsp;April 1988, before a special tribunal comprising Israeli Supreme Court Judge Dov Levin and Jerusalem District Court Judges Zvi Tal and Dalia Dorner. The prosecution team consisted of Israeli State Attorney Yonah Blatman, Michael Shaked of the Jerusalem District Attorney's Office, Dennis Goldman and Eli Gabay of the International Section of the State Attorney's Office, and others. According to prosecutors, Demjanjuk had been recruited into the Soviet army in 1940, and had fought until he was captured by German troops in Eastern Crimea in May 1942. He was then brought to a German prisoner of war camp in Chełm in July 1942. Prosecutors claimed that Demjanjuk volunteered to collaborate with the Germans and was sent to the camp at Trawniki, where he was trained to guard prisoners and was given a firearm, a uniform, and an ID card with his photograph. The principal allegation was that three former prisoners identified Demjanjuk as "Иван Грозный" . In 1979, Danilchenko made another statement adding that Demjanjuk was allegedly three years older than himself and had been in Sobibor in 1943. None of Danilchenko's allegations were ever subjected to cross-examination. The alleged Trawniki certificate also implied that Demjanjuk had served at Sobibor, as did the German orders of March&nbsp;1943 posting his Trawniki unit to the area. After Demjanjuk's acquittal, the Israeli Attorney-General decided to release him rather than to pursue charges of committing crimes at Sobibor. Ten petitions against the decision were made to the Supreme Court. On 18&nbsp;August 1993, the court rejected the petitions on the grounds that # the principle of double jeopardy would be infringed, # that new charges would be unreasonable given the seriousness of those of which he had been acquitted, # that conviction on the new charges would be unlikely, and # that Demjanjuk was extradited from the United States specifically to stand trial for offenses attributed to Ivan the Terrible of Treblinka, and not for other alternative charges. During the trial, the prosecution argued that Demjanjuk should be tried for alleged crimes at Sobibor; however, Justice Aharon Barak was not convinced, stating "We know nothing about him at Sobibor". Simon Wiesenthal, an iconic figure in Nazi hunting, first believed Demjanjuk was guilty, but after Demjanjuk's acquittal by the Israeli Supreme Court said he too would have cleared him given the new evidence. Demjanjuk was released to return to the United States. In 1993, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that Demjanjuk was a victim of fraud on the court, as United States federal government trial lawyers with the Office of Special Investigations had recklessly failed to disclose evidence, and the extradition order previously granted was rescinded. In a report submitted to the Sixth Circuit prior to the Israeli acquittal, federal judge Thomas A. Wiseman, Jr. concluded that American federal officials had erred in asserting that Demjanjuk was Ivan the Terrible, but that evidence instead pointed to Demjanjuk being a lesser SS agent. After the Court of Appeals remanded the matter to Judge Wiseman, Judge Wiseman dismissed the denaturalization petition proceedings in 1998, effectively restoring Demjanjuk's citizenship. Transcripts of Demjanjuk's 1988 trial, and the character of Demjanjuk himself, appear in Philip Roth's 1993 novel Operation Shylock.. On 20 February 1998, Judge Paul Matia of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio ruled that Demjanjuk's citizenship could be restored. On 19 May 1999, the Justice Department filed a new civil complaint against Demjanjuk. No mention was made in the new complaint of the previous allegations that Demjanjuk was Ivan the Terrible. Instead, the complaint alleged that Demjanjuk served as a guard at the Sobibór and Majdanek camps in Poland under German occupation and at the Flossenbürg camp in Germany. It additionally accused Demjanjuk of being a member of an SS-run unit that took part in capturing nearly two million Jews in the General Government of Poland. He was put on trial again in 2001. In February 2002, Judge Matia revoked Demjanjuk's US citizenship. Matia ruled that Demjanjuk had not produced any credible evidence of his whereabouts during the war and that the Justice Department had proved its case against him. Demjanjuk appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which on 30&nbsp;April 2004 ruled that Demjanjuk could be again stripped of his US citizenship because the Justice Department had presented "clear, unequivocal and convincing evidence" of Demjanjuk's service in Nazi death camps. The United States Supreme Court declined to hear his appeal in November&nbsp;2004. On 28&nbsp;December 2005, an immigration judge ordered Demjanjuk deported to Germany, Poland or Ukraine. In an attempt to avoid deportation, Demjanjuk sought protection under the United Nations Convention against Torture, claiming that he would be prosecuted and tortured if he were deported to Ukraine. Chief US Immigration Judge Michael Creppy ruled there was no evidence to substantiate Demjanjuk's claim that he would be mistreated if he were sent to Ukraine. On 22&nbsp;December 2006, the Board of Immigration Appeals upheld the deportation order. On 30&nbsp;January 2008, the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit denied Demjanjuk's request for review. On 19&nbsp;May 2008, the US Supreme Court denied Demjanjuk's petition for certiorari, declining to hear his case against the deportation order. The Supreme Court's denial of review meant that the order of removal was final; no other appeal was possible. One month after the US Supreme Court's refusal to hear Demjanjuk's case, on 19&nbsp;June 2008, Germany announced it would seek the extradition of Demjanjuk to Germany. The file on Demjanjuk was compiled by the special German office investigating Nazi crimes. On 10&nbsp;November 2008, German federal prosecutor Kurt Schrimm directed prosecutors to file in Munich for extradition, since Demjanjuk once lived there. On 9&nbsp;December 2008, a German federal court declared that Demjanjuk could be tried for his alleged role in the Holocaust. Some three months later, on 11&nbsp;March 2009, Demjanjuk was charged with more than 29,000&nbsp;counts of accessory to murder of Jewish prisoners at the Sobibor extermination camp. The German foreign ministry announced on 2 April 2009 that Demjanjuk would be transferred to Germany the following week, and would face trial beginning 30&nbsp;November 2009. On 2&nbsp;April 2009 – Demjanjuk filed a motion in an immigration trial court in Virginia. The motion sought to reopen the matter of the removal order against him; that order of removal had been originally issued by an immigration court in 2005, had been upheld by the BIA on administrative appeal in late 2006, and was further upheld by the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals; after these two appeals, the US Supreme Court had, as noted above, denied any review. In connection with the motion to reopen, Demjanjuk also asked the immigration court to stay the removal order, pending the decision on whether or not to reopen the matter. On 3 April 2009, US Immigration Judge Wayne Iskra temporarily stayed Demjanjuk's deportation, but reversed himself three days later, on 6&nbsp;April. As the Government noted, a motion to reopen, such as Demjanjuk's, could only properly be filed with the Board of Immigration Appeals in Washington, D.C., and not an immigration trial court. The issuance of the stay by the immigration trial court was therefore improper, as that court had no jurisdiction over the matter. Accordingly, Demjanjuk re-filed his motion to reopen, and for an attendant stay, with the BIA. On 10&nbsp;April, the BIA found there was "little likelihood of success that pending motion to re-open the case will be granted" and accordingly denied his motion for a stay pending the disposition of his motion to reopen. This removed any obstacles to federal agents seizing him for deportation to Germany. On 14&nbsp;April 2009, immigration agents removed Demjanjuk from his home in preparation for deportation. The same day, Demjanjuk's son filed a motion in the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit asking that the deportation be stayed, which was subsequently granted. The Government argued that the Court of Appeals has no jurisdiction to review the decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals, which denied the stay. Demjanjuk later won a last-minute stay of deportation, shortly after US immigration agents carried him from his home in a wheelchair to face trial in Germany. The BIA denied Demjanjuk's motion to reopen his deportation case. On 1&nbsp;May 2009, the Sixth Circuit lifted the stay that it had imposed against Demjanjuk's deportation order. On Thursday 7&nbsp;May 2009, the United States Supreme Court, via Justice John Paul Stevens, declined to consider Demjanjuk's case for review, thereby denying Demjanjuk any further stay of deportation. Justice Stevens issued his decision without comment. Demjanjuk's counsel thereafter stated that his client would not seek to have the entire Court consider Justice Stevens' decision and that accordingly all legal avenues in the United States to halt the deportation had been exhausted. Demjanjuk sued Germany on 30&nbsp;April 2009, to try to block the German government's agreement to accept Demjanjuk from the US. The German Administrative Court rejected Demjanjuk's claim on 6&nbsp;May. Demjanjuk was deported to Germany, leaving Cleveland, Ohio, on 11&nbsp;May 2009, to arrive in Munich on 12&nbsp;May. Upon his arrival, he was arrested and sent to Munich's Stadelheim prison.. On 3 July 2009, prosecutors deemed Demjanjuk fit to stand trial. On 13 July 2009, prosecutors charged him with 27,900&nbsp;counts of accessory to murder. Demjanjuk was tried without any connection to a concrete act of murder or cruelty, but rather on the theory that as a guard at Sobibor he was per se guilty of murder, a novelty in the German justice system that was seen as risky for the prosecution. Doctors restricted the time Demjanjuk could be tried in court each day to two sessions of 90 minutes each, said Munich State Prosecutor Anton Winkler. On 30 November 2009, Demjanjuk's trial, expected to last for several months, began in Munich. Demjanjuk arrived in the courtroom in a wheelchair pushed by a German police officer. Some 35 plaintiffs were admitted to file in the case, including four survivors of the Sobibor concentration camp and 26 relatives of victims. The Central Council of Jews in Germany issued a statement in regard to the extradition and the trial, stressing their symbolic significance. "All NS criminals still living shall know that there won't be mercy for them, regardless of their age. They have to be held accountable for their inhuman deeds." On 14&nbsp;April 2010, Anton Dallmeyer, an expert witness, testified that the typeset and handwriting on an ID card being used as key evidence matched four other ID cards believed to have been issued at the SS training camp at Trawniki. Demjanjuk's lawyer argued that all of the ID cards could be forgeries and that there was no point comparing them. The prosecution also produced orders to a man identified as Demjanjuk to go to Sobibor and other records to show that Demjanjuk had served as a guard there. Demjanjuk's defense team argued that these documents were Soviet forgeries. On 24&nbsp;February 2010, a witness for the prosecution, Alex Nagorny, who agreed to serve the Nazi Germans after his capture, testified that he knew Demjanjuk from his time as a guard. When asked to identify Demjanjuk in the courtroom, however, Nagorny was unable to, stating "That's definitely not him - no resemblance." As Nagorny had previously identified Demjanjuk from his US visa application photo, his inability to recognize Demjanjuk in the courtroom was seen as unimportant. On 15&nbsp;January 2011, Spain requested a European arrest warrant be issued for alleged Nazi war crimes while Demjanjuk was still on trial in Germany; specifically, it alleged that Demjanjuk was involved in the deaths of 60 Spaniards imprisoned at Flossenbürg while serving as a guard there. Germany denied Spain's extradition request on 31 May 2011, citing jurisdictional concerns and insufficient evidence provided by Spanish authorities of Demjanjuk's involvement in the crimes alleged by them. On 12&nbsp;May 2011, aged&nbsp;91, Demjanjuk was convicted as an accessory to the murder of 27,900&nbsp;Jews at Sobibor killing centre and sentenced to five years in prison. Presiding Judge Ralph Alt ordered Demjanjuk released from custody pending his appeal. The judge suspended the remainder of the sentence, noting Demjanjuk had already served 2&nbsp;years during trial, was 91&nbsp;years old, and had served 8&nbsp;years in Israel on related charges that were later overturned. Alt said there were no grounds to hold Demjanjuk. "It's the law, and so it's justice," he added. "I say he's guilty, but it's not a final verdict." Demjanjuk's interim conviction had the potential to set a new legal precedent in Germany, opening the possibility of hundreds of new investigations. This was the first time someone has been convicted solely on the basis of serving as a camp guard, with no evidence of being involved in the death of any specific inmate. After Demjanjuk's death, the Munich court issued a statement that Demjanjuk is "still technically presumed innocent", because he died before his final appeal could be heard, and "a person is presumed innocent until proven guilty". According to German law, no conviction stands until all appeal rights have been exhausted.. John Demjanjuk died at a home for the elderly in Bad Feilnbach, Germany on 17 March 2012, aged 91. As a consequence of his appeal not having been heard, Demjanjuk's conviction of May 2011 by a lower court was invalidated; and he died without a criminal record. Demjanjuk's lawyer, Dr. Ulrich Busch, had demanded that the Munich court publish a clarifying statement that Demjanjuk was presumed innocent and without a criminal record "given the false statements in international media reports that Demjanjuk died a convicted war criminal". Following his death, his relatives requested that he be buried in the United States, where he once lived. Jewish organizations have opposed this, claiming that his burial site would become a centre for neo-Nazi activity. On 31 March 2012, it was reported that John Demjanjuk was buried at an undisclosed US location, now known to be the Ukrainian section of the Brooklyn Heights cemetery in Parma, Ohio. On 12 April 2012, Demjanjuk's attorneys filed a suit to posthumously restore his US citizenship. The suit alleged that US government withheld a key FBI document that could have helped him in his bid to keep his citizenship. In 2011 the Associated Press had uncovered a secret 1985 FBI report which indicated that a Nazi ID card showing that Demjanjuk had served as a death camp guard could have been a Soviet-made fake. The judge in the case ruled that the FBI document was based on speculation and unfounded beliefs. The subsequent motion filed in the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati alleged an ongoing pattern of withholding other exculpatory materials. Demjanjuk's lawyers claimed that a matter does not rest on a singular document, but that "hundreds of files" recently declassified by a National Archives and Records Administration in Maryland could have aided Demjanjuk's efforts to recover US citizenship. On 28 June 2012, the 6th US Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati ruled that Demjanjuk could not regain his citizenship posthumously. The three-judge panel said in its ruling that his death made the case moot, and that the appeal was without merit, given the court's 2004 decision that Demjanjuk's denaturalization should not be revoked. On 11 September 2012, the court denied Demjanjuk's request to have the appeal reheard en banc by the full court. In early June 2012, Ulrich Busch, Demjanjuk's attorney, filed a complaint with Bavarian prosecutors claiming that the pain medication Novalgin that had been administered to Demjanjuk helped lead to his death. Busch asked prosecutors to open an investigation of five doctors and a nurse on suspicion of manslaughter and causing bodily harm. The investigation was closed in November 2012 after no evidence emerged to support the allegations.. On 6&nbsp;April 2013, the Central Office of the State Justice Administrations for the Investigation of National Socialist Crimes announced it would charge 50&nbsp;former guards at Auschwitz concentration camp with accessory to murder. The investigation lacked direct witnesses, but the agency hoped that available written records would suffice in court, as was the case with Demjanjuk. In April&nbsp;2015, the trial of Oskar Gröning began.