Task Scheduler is a component of Microsoft Windows that provides the ability to schedule the launch of programs or scripts at pre-defined times or after specified time intervals: job scheduling . It was first introduced in the Microsoft Plus! for Windows 95 as System Agent but was renamed to Task Scheduler in Internet Explorer 4.0 and Windows 98. The Windows Event Log service must be running before the Task Scheduler starts up. This service should not be confused with the that allocates CPU resources to processes already in memory..  Task Scheduler 1.0 is included with Windows NT 4.0 . Task Scheduler 2.0 exposes an API to allow computer programs and scripts create tasks. It consists of 42 COM interfaces. The Windows API does not, however, include a managed wrapper for Task Scheduler though an open source implementation exists. The job files for Task Scheduler 2.0 are XML-based, and are human-readable, conforming to the Task Scheduler Schema. New security features, including using Credential Manager to passwords for tasks on workgroup computers and using Active Directory for task credentials on domain-joined computers so that they cannot be retrieved easily. Also, scheduled tasks are executed in their own session, instead of the same session as system services or the current user. Ability to wake up a machine remotely or using BIOS timer from sleep or hibernation to execute a scheduled task or run a previously scheduled task after a machine gets turned on. Ability to attach tasks to events directly from the Event Viewer.. The Task Scheduler service works by managing Tasks; Task refers to the action . A task is defined by associating a set of actions, which can include launching an application or taking some custom-defined action, to a set of triggers, which can either be time-based or event-based. In addition, a task also can contain metadata that defines how the actions will be executed, such as the security context the task will run in. Tasks are serialized to .job files and are stored in the special folder titled Task Folder, organized in subdirectories. Programmatically, the task folder is accessed using the ITaskFolder interface or the TaskFolder scripting object and individual tasks using the IRegisteredTask interface or RegisteredTask object.. On Windows 2000 and Windows XP, tasks assigned to run with SYSTEM privileges do not function when the computer is prepared for disk imaging with sysprep. Sysprep changes the security identifier to avoid duplication but does not update scheduled tasks to use the new SID. Consequently, all SYSTEM scheduled tasks fail to run on the imaged computers. There is no solution for this problem but one may reschedule the tasks to work around the issue. On Windows Vista or Windows Server 2008, where Service Pack 2 is not installed, the next execution time displayed in Task Scheduler may be wrong. On Windows Vista, 7, 2008, and 2008 R2: The MMC Component says that you are running "Task Scheduler 1.0" when in fact you are running 2.0, this is a trivial bug so it wasn't noticed, and is likely due to the re-write of the task scheduler. The version has been corrected to 2.0 in Windows 8 and in 2012.