Francis Joseph Sheeran . The truthfulness of that book, and the claims that Sheeran killed Hoffa or Joey Gallo, have since been disputed by several publications. The book is the basis for the 2019 film The Irishman directed by Martin Scorsese and starring Robert De Niro as Frank Sheeran and Al Pacino as Hoffa.. Sheeran was born and raised in Darby, Pennsylvania, a small working-class borough on the outskirts of Philadelphia. He was the son of Thomas Francis Sheeran Jr., a house painter from Philadelphia , and Mary Agnes Hanson. Sheeran was of Irish Catholic descent on his father's side and Swedish on his mother's side.. Sheeran enlisted in the Army in August 1941, did basic training near Biloxi, Mississippi, and was assigned to the military police. Following the attack on Pearl Harbor, he volunteered for training in the Army Airborne at Fort Benning, Georgia. After dislocating his shoulder, he was transferred to the 45th Infantry Division, known as "The Thunderbirds" and "The Killer Division." On July 14, 1943, Sheeran set sail for North Africa. Sheeran served 411 days of combat duty . His first experience of combat was during the Italian Campaign; including the invasion of Sicily, the Salerno landings, the Anzio Campaign. He then served in the landings in southern France, and the invasion of Germany. Sheeran said: All in all, I had fifty days lost under AWOL — absent without official leave — mostly spent drinking red wine and chasing Italian, French, and German women. However, I was never AWOL when my outfit was going back to the front lines. If you were AWOL when your unit was going back into combat you might as well keep going because one of your own officers would blow you away and they didn't even have to say it was the Germans. That's desertion in the face of the enemy. Sheeran later recalled his war service as the time when he first developed a callousness to the taking of human life. Sheeran claimed to have participated in numerous massacres and summary executions of German POWs, acts which violated the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 and the 1929 Geneva Convention on POWs. In later interviews with Charles Brandt, he divided such massacres into four categories: # Revenge killings in the heat of battle. Sheeran told Brandt that, when a German soldier had just killed his close friends and then tried to surrender, he would often "send him to hell, too". He described often witnessing similar behavior by fellow GIs. # Orders from unit commanders during a mission. When describing his first murder for organized crime, Sheeran recalled: "It was just like when an officer would tell you to take a couple of German prisoners back behind the line and for you to 'hurry back'. You did what you had to do." # The Dachau massacre and other reprisal killings of concentration camp guards and trustee inmates. # Calculated attempts to dehumanize and degrade German POWs. While Sheeran's unit was climbing the Harz Mountains, they came upon a Wehrmacht mule train carrying food and drink up the mountainside. The female cooks were first allowed to leave unmolested, then Sheeran and his fellow GI's "ate what we wanted and soiled the rest with our waste". Then the Wehrmacht mule drivers were given shovels and ordered to "dig their own shallow graves". Sheeran later joked that they did so without complaint, likely hoping that he and his buddies would change their minds. But the mule drivers were shot and buried in the holes they had dug. Sheeran explained that by then, he "had no hesitation in doing what I had to do." Sheeran was discharged from the army on October 24, 1945. He later recalled that it was "a day before my twenty-fifth birthday, but only according to the calendar." Upon returning from his army service, Sheeran married Mary Leddy, an Irish immigrant. The couple had three daughters, MaryAnne, Dolores, and Peggy, but divorced in 1968. Sheeran then married a woman named Irene, with whom he had one daughter, Connie.. When he left the service, Sheeran became a truck driver but made extra money on the side by committing crimes, including murder for hire. Due to his criminal acumen, he became a close associate of Mafia bosses Russell Bufalino and Angelo Bruno. It was Bufalino, the head of the Bufalino crime family, who acted as Sheeran's mentor throughout his life. Sheeran was suspected to have been the lone shooter in the murder of Joe Gallo at Umberto's Clam House on April 7, 1972. Years later, lead Gallo case detective Joe Coffey confirmed that Sheeran was the man who killed Gallo because the NYPD would hang up on phone callers who would try to sell the NYPD information on the "three killers" who claimed to kill Gallo as an integrity test. Coffey was stated as saying "We knew it was a large lone gunman and he certainly wasn't Italian." The circulated story was that three Italian men stormed Umberto's guns blazing and killed Gallo. Also a separate eyewitness from the night of the shooting has confirmed that Sheeran killed Joe Gallo. Sheeran also apparently operated out of a bar located in Sharon Hill, PA, which was in fact run by Bill Distanisloa, an Angelo Bruno soldier.. Bufalino set Sheeran up with Teamsters International President Jimmy Hoffa. Hoffa, who became a close friend, used Sheeran for muscle, including the assassination of recalcitrant union members and members of rival unions threatening the Teamsters' turf. According to Sheeran, the first conversation he had with Hoffa was over the phone, where Hoffa started by saying, "I heard you paint houses"—a mob code meaning: I heard you kill people, the "paint" being the blood that splatters when you fire bullets into a body, also according to Sheeran.. Sheeran was indicted along with six others in July 1980, on charges involving his links to the labor leasing businesses controlled by Eugene Boffa Sr. of Hackensack, New Jersey. On October 31, 1980, Sheeran was found guilty of 11 charges of labor racketeering. He was sentenced to a 32-year prison term and served 13 years.. Sheeran died of cancer on December 14, 2003, aged 83, in a nursing home in Philadelphia. He was buried at Holy Cross Cemetery in Yeadon, Pennsylvania.. In the book I Heard You Paint Houses: Frank "The Irishman" Sheeran and the Closing of the Case on Jimmy Hoffa , author Charles Brandt claims that Sheeran confessed to assassinating Hoffa. According to Brandt, Chuckie O'Brien drove Sheeran, Hoffa, and fellow mobster Sal Briguglio to a house in Detroit. He claimed that while O'Brien and Briguglio drove off, Sheeran and Hoffa went into the house, where Sheeran claims that he shot Hoffa twice in the back of the head. Sheeran says that he was told that Hoffa was cremated after the murder. Sheeran also confessed to reporters that he murdered Hoffa. Two sets of blood remnants were found in the front hall and middle hallway of the Detroit house where Sheeran claimed the murder happened. One stain at the bottom of the stairs was fresh enough to extract DNA from and was found not to be Hoffa's blood. A blood trail from the vestibule, where Sheeran says he shot Hoffa, down the middle hallway was consistent with Sheeran's confession but proved to be too old and degraded to extract DNA from. The trail leads to the kitchen where, in 1975, there had been a door leading to the outside, consistent with Sheeran's confession that the "cleaners" would have taken the body directly out of the back of the house so no one could see the removal from the street. The blood pattern added weight to the claim that someone had been killed at the home and the body had been dragged down the hallway as Sheeran had said. The house was located only minutes from the restaurant parking lot where Hoffa was last seen but no evidence yet exists that links Hoffa to the house. Out of the 28 spots of blood found in the home only 2 of the spots tested positive for DNA. Considering where Sheeran confessed he killed Hoffa and that almost 30 years had elapsed by the time a forensics team entered the home, it is not likely traces of Hoffa's DNA would have been found. The FBI continues its attempts to connect Sheeran to the murder, retesting the blood and floorboards with latest advancements in forensics. In Riddle, a documentary about the Hoffa disappearance that was broadcast on November 27, 2018 on FOX, the FBI replied "No comment" when asked about their latest tests.. Martin Scorsese was long interested in directing a film regarding Sheeran's life and his alleged involvement in the slaying of Jimmy Hoffa, eventually getting greenlit as The Irishman. Steven Zaillian is the screenwriter and Robert De Niro portrays Sheeran, with Al Pacino as Jimmy Hoffa, and Joe Pesci as Russell Bufalino. The film had its world premiere at the New York Film Festival on September 27, 2019 and was released on November 1, 2019 with digital streaming that started on November 27, 2019 via Netflix.