'Terminator: Dark Fate' is a 2019 American science fiction action film directed by Tim Miller, with screenplay by David Goyer, Justin Rhodes, and Billy Ray, from a story by James Cameron, Charles H. Eglee, Josh Friedman, Goyer, and Rhodes. Cameron also produced the film, alongside David Ellison. It is the sixth installment in the Terminator franchise, and acts as a direct sequel to The Terminator . Filming for Terminator: Dark Fate took place from June to November 2018 in Hungary, Spain, and the United States. Distributed by Paramount Pictures in North America and 20th Century Fox in other territories, the film was theatrically released in the United States on November 1, 2019. It received mixed reviews from critics, who believed it to be an improvement over previous installments and praised the performances and action sequences, but criticized the recycled plot points and narrative choices. The film also became a box-office bomb, having grossed $250 million against an estimated production budget of $185–196 million. With a break-even point of $450–480 million, projected losses for the studios involved are estimated to reach $130 million.. In 1998, three years after averting the threat of Skynet, Sarah and John Connor are enjoying life by a beach in Livingston, Guatemala, when they are suddenly attacked by a T-800 Terminator. Sent back through time by Skynet prior to its erasure, the Terminator murders John before disappearing. Twenty-two years later, an advanced Terminator, called Rev-9, is sent back in time to Mexico City, to murder Daniella "Dani" Ramos, while a cybernetically enhanced soldier, Grace, is sent to protect her. The Rev-9, disguised as her father, infiltrates the assembly plant where Dani and her brother Diego work, but is thwarted by Grace, who escapes with the siblings. The Rev-9, revealing its ability to split itself into its cybernetic endoskeleton and exterior, pursues them, killing Diego and cornering Grace and Dani. However, Sarah arrives and temporarily disables the Terminator with explosives. Dani, Grace, and Sarah retreat to a motel so Grace can recover. Sarah reveals that she found them because in the years since John's death, she has received encrypted messages detailing the locations of arriving Terminators; each ending with "For John". Grace notes that neither Skynet nor John exists in her timeline. Instead, humanity is threatened by an AI called Legion, developed by the SAC-NORAD for cyberwarfare. Legion took control of servers worldwide and, in desperation, humanity tried to neutralize it with nuclear weapons, resulting in a nuclear holocaust and the AI creating a global network of machines to terminate the human survivors. Grace traces Sarah's messages to Laredo, Texas. Barely evading the Rev-9 and the authorities when crossing the Mexico–United States border, they arrive at their source, where they discover the same T-800 that murdered John. Having fulfilled its mission and with Skynet no longer existing, the T-800 was left aimless, and through learning it developed self-awareness. During that time, it learned from humanity and built a conscience, taking the name "Carl" and adopting a human family. After learning how its actions affected Sarah, and being able to detect temporal displacements, Carl decided to forewarn her of them to give her purpose. Carl offers to join them against the Rev-9 and they make preparations to destroy it. Sarah begrudgingly agrees to work together for Dani's sake. Anticipating the Rev-9's arrival, Carl bids its family farewell and tells them to escape. The group gives Dani tactical weapons training and plans how to ambush the Rev-9. In order to do so, they seek out a military grade EMP from an acquaintance of Sarah's. The Rev-9 catches up with them, forcing them to steal a C-5 Galaxy to escape, though the EMP's are destroyed in the resulting shootout. During the flight, Grace further reveals that Dani becomes the future founding commander of the Resistance, as well as her rescuer. Sarah and Carl realize that they were fated to meet Grace and Dani. The Rev-9 boards their airplane by using a KC-10 Extender and temporarily subdues Carl, forcing Grace, Sarah and Dani to jump from the plane into a river near a hydro-power plant, with Carl and the Rev-9 following close behind. Bludgeoned, the group makes a stand inside. In the ensuing battle, Carl and Grace force the Rev-9 into a spinning turbine, causing an explosion that critically damages the two Terminators and mortally wounds Grace. The damaged Rev-9's endoskeleton then incapacitates Sarah, forcing Dani to confront it herself. A dying Grace tells Dani to use her power source to destroy the Rev-9. Dani tries to fight the Rev-9, but is quickly overpowered. Carl reactivates and restrains the Rev-9, allowing Dani to stab it with Grace's power source. Carl drags itself and the Rev-9 over a ledge and tells Sarah "For John", right before the power core explodes, destroying them both. Sometime later, Dani and Sarah watch over a ten-year old Grace at a park with her family, the former determined to avert Grace's death. Sarah then tells Dani she needs to get ready, with Grace watching as the pair drives off.. * Linda Hamilton as Sarah Connor, the mother of John Connor, the former future leader of the Human Resistance in the war against the machines . Daniella sends Grace to protect her younger self from Legion's new advanced Terminator prototype. She then learns about the initial timeline after meeting Sarah Connor and Skynet's surviving T-800 unit Carl. She and Sarah share a mutual distrust, due in parts because the latter sees her as a novice and being part-machine. Despite knowing that Carl is a Terminator and what he did to Sarah's son, she trusts him as a comrade and friend, mainly because of her fascination with his behavioral developments and awareness that he is not one of Legion's machines. She also briefs Sarah, Dani, and Carl about Legion.* Stephanie Gil portrays Grace as a child in the present day and as a teenager in the flashforwards. Natalia Reyes as Daniella "Dani" Ramos, a young woman who works for a Mexico City-based automobile industrial plant, Arius Motors, with her brother, Diego. Dani is being targeted for termination by the new advanced Terminator prototype Rev-9. Prior to the film's events, she and her brother are planning to emigrate legally to the United States in hope for a better life and opportunities, including the healthcare their ailing father needs. At some point in her childhood, Dani's mother abandoned her family and died after attempting to cross the border illegally. Sarah Connor initially believes that Dani, like herself, is the destined mother of the Resistance leader. Later, it is revealed that Dani is fated to take on a role akin to that of Sarah's deceased son John Connor, as the founding commander of the Resistance in the war against the machines of Legion, with Sarah as her mentor. Once she assumes her role as Resistance Commander, having survived the events that her younger self is going through, Dani has foreknowledge that Grace would meet Sarah Connor shortly after arriving in the past and instructs her to seek Skynet's T-800 for aid by tattooing its location's coordinates on her. Gabriel Luna as Gabriel / Rev-9, an advanced Terminator prototype that originated from Legion and was sent back in time to terminate Dani. Featuring a traditional solid endoskeleton covered with a "mimetic polyalloy", the Rev-9 possesses the ability to separate these two components into two separate, fully autonomous units. In addition, the Rev-9 has the ability to exhibit intelligent behavior paralleling humans', including emotions, which enables it to outclass most of Skynet's Terminators in infiltration. Diego Boneta as Diego Ramos, Dani's younger brother.Tristán Ulloa as Felipe Gandal, Dani's maternal uncle and a border coyote.Ferran Fernández as Flacco Gandal, Felipe's son and thus Dani's cousin. Alicia Borrachero as Alicia, Carl's wife. Manuel Pacific as Mateo, Carl's step-son. Enrique Arce as Vicente Ramos, the father of Dani and Diego.Fraser James as Dean, a United States Air Force intelligence officer and acquaintance of Sarah.Tom Hopper as William Hardell, Grace's commanding officer in the Resistance.Stuart McQuarrie as Craig, Dani and Diego's work supervisor at Arius Motors' Mexico City-based assembly plant.Georgia Simon, the film's ADR voice casting director, provided the voice of Grace's mother. Jude Collie served as a body double for young John Connor, with CGI applied to recreate Edward Furlong's facial likeness from the 1990s in the opening scene.*Aaron Kunitz provided the voice of young John Connor..  By December 2013, Skydance Productions was planning for Terminator Genisys to be the start of a . The Genisys sequels were scheduled for release on May 19, 2017 and June 29, 2018. For the second film in the planned trilogy, actor Arnold Schwarzenegger was to reprise his role as the T-800. Terminator Genisys was produced by Skydance founder David Ellison, and was released in 2015, but development of the planned trilogy was stalled after the film's disappointing box-office performance. Dana Goldberg, the chief creative officer for Skydance, said in October 2015 that she "wouldn't say where Grace is kind of Dani's surrogate child and a mother sending her child to die for her is just...yeah, I had a different scene in mind." Additionally, several different endings were considered, including one in which Sarah and Dani would bury Grace, and another in which Grace's body would be burned and sent down a river. Eventually, Miller suggested the idea that Dani would go to see the younger Grace. The ending playground scene was a late addition to the film. Cameron devised the idea of a T-800 Terminator that is "just out there in this kind of limbo" for more than 20 years after carrying out an order, becoming more human "in the sense that he's evaluating the moral consequences of things that he did, that he was ordered to do back in his early days, and really kind of developing a consciousness and a conscience". Cameron considered this iteration of the character to be more interesting than those featured in his first two films, saying, "We've seen the Terminator that was programmed to be bad; you've seen the one that was programmed to be good, to be a protector. But in both cases, neither one of them have free will." Schwarzenegger enjoys interior decorating, so Cameron suggested that his T-800 character in the film have a drapery business. By April 2017, Schwarzenegger had joined the project to reprise his role. In September of the same year, it was announced Hamilton would return to reprise her role as Sarah Connor. Hamilton last portrayed the character onscreen in Terminator 2, although she also provided her voice in an uncredited role for Terminator Salvation. Because previous Terminator films did not do well with audiences, Miller felt it was necessary to have Hamilton reprise the role. Cameron, Ellison and Miller only wanted to bring back the Sarah Connor character if Hamilton would reprise the role. The film's storyline was devised first so the trio would have an idea to pitch to Hamilton. Cameron said that he sent Hamilton a "long rambling email with a lot of reasons why she should do it and a lot of reasons why she shouldn't." Cameron's main reason for why Hamilton should return was that people liked her in the role. There was never a version of the film that excluded Hamilton, and Miller said there was no backup plan in the event that she declined the role. After approximately six weeks, Hamilton chose to sign on to the film, which did not yet have a completed script for her to read as it was still being refined. Initially, Hamilton was not sure if she wanted to reprise the role. She had been semi-retired from acting, and said, "I didn't want it to look like a shameless money grab. I am living this quiet, lovely life that doesn't involve being a celebrity, and you really have to think, do I really want to trade that in again for another 15 minutes?" Because so much time had passed since her 1991 appearance as Sarah Connor, Hamilton had assumed that she would never reprise the role, and she was surprised by the offer to do so. Hamilton said about her decision to return, "I was very pleased that all of the years had passed, because I could fill the years up with so much backstory and inner life that could power the character." Hamilton spent more than a year working with a fitness trainer to get into physical shape for the role. Hamilton said she put 10 times the effort into her physique than she did for Terminator 2. This included a regimen of supplements and bioidentical hormones, as well as training with Green Berets. Commenting on Hamilton's role, Cameron said he liked the idea of an action film starring a 62-year-old actress. Hamilton chose to dye her hair gray for the film, as she wanted viewers to see her character as an old woman. The production was also looking to cast an 18 to 20-year-old woman to be the new centerpiece of the story. Hamilton rehearsed lines with several actresses who were auditioning for the role of Dani, and she immediately felt that Natalia Reyes was the right choice. In March 2018, it was announced that Mackenzie Davis had been cast in the film. Miller said about Davis, "I didn't just want a woman who could physically fit the role but emotionally as well. Mackenzie really wanted to do it; she came after the role. She worked harder than anybody." After Davis was cast, she undertook physical training for the film's fight scenes. Schwarzenegger and Gabriel Luna also underwent physical training for the film. Because the film is partially set in Mexico City, the cast includes several Latino actors, including Reyes, Luna, and Diego Boneta, who were cast as primary characters in April 2018. Reyes said, "This movie is a reflection of Hollywood now. We are just changing these stereotypes and the ideas and the cliches of what a Latino should be." By June 2018, Jude Collie had been cast as the double for a young John Connor, with Brett Azar reprising his role from Genisys as the body double for a younger T-800. Cameron announced in July 2019 that Edward Furlong would reprise his role of John Connor from Terminator 2: Judgment Day. Furlong later said that his role in the film was small, and Miller regretted that Cameron made such an announcement. Furlong's likeness was used to digitally recreate his younger face through CGI, and he also gave a performance through motion capture footage of his face that was added into the film. Furlong is credited as "John Connor reference". Furlong was disappointed by his small role, which was limited to one day of work. Production was initially intended to start in March 2018, but was delayed due to casting. It was then expected to start during May and end during November with filming taking place in Hungary, United Kingdom, Spain, and Mexico. In April 2018, the film's release date was delayed to November 2019. Filming began on June 4, 2018, under the working title Terminator 6: Phoenix, in Isleta del Moro, Almería, Spain. The first day of filming involved the pivotal opening scene featuring the characters of the T-800, Sarah Connor, and John Connor. Each of the three characters were portrayed in the scene by body doubles, and digital de-aging was later applied to give them a youthful appearance. The doubles wore special hoods that tracked their head movements, allowing their facial features to be replaced later by new motion-capture facial footage recorded by Schwarzenegger, Hamilton, and Furlong. During filming of the opening scene, Hamilton expressed dissatisfaction with the body double's portrayal, feeling that it was not accurately reflective of the character. Hamilton advised the body double on how to portray the character for a more fierce response to the T-800 character. Hamilton was disappointed that she had no onscreen part in the scene and later said, "It wasn't me and it really hurt. I cried my eyes out when I got home." For Sarah Connor, the film used more stuntwomen than Terminator 2, and Hamilton said she "really got a little crazy trying to micromanage" them to ensure that they moved the way her character should. For this reason, Hamilton performed some of her own stunts. Other filming locations in Spain included the Madrid neighborhoods of Pueblo Nuevo and Lavapiés, which stood in as Mexican towns. For these scenes, the film crew repainted cars to resemble taxis and also left old vehicles on the streets to portray abandonment. The Mexican scenes were shot in Spain for budget reasons and because of safety concerns about drug cartels in Mexico. While filming in Spain, Luna coached several actors on how to speak Spanish with a Mexican accent. The film includes a scene in which the characters are held in a detention center on the Mexico–United States border. Miller said the scene was not meant as a social commentary or political statement on immigrant issues related to the border, stating that the scene was "just a natural evolution of the story". He said about the scene, "I tried to walk a line there because it's a terrible situation, but I didn't want to vilify border guards. They're people doing a job. The system is the problem. And even the choice to do it really wasn't a statement. It really was a function of us putting the story's beginning in central Mexico and then traveling." Miller was emotional while filming the scene due to its depiction of immigrants being held in a detention center. Luna said, "We don't make any overt political stances; we just show you what's happening in the world and you receive it however as you may." Filming subsequently moved to Origo Film Studios in Budapest, Hungary, with the intention of shooting for a month there before filming the rest of the film in the United States. Hamilton said the film's script was the first one that she did not fully understand, because of its large amount of action. Animated previsualization aided the cast during such scenes. In Budapest, special effects supervisor Neil Corbould created the film's largest set piece: the fuselage of a Lockheed C-5 Galaxy plane. The set was constructed on an 85-ton gimbal, the largest ever built. The set was capable of rotating 360 degrees, and could tilt backwards and forwards at 10 degrees. The set was powered by five 200-liter-per-minute hydraulic pumps, as well as more than a mile and a half of hydraulic hoses. A pit had to be dug in the concrete floor of the sound stage to accommodate the large set, which took five months to build. The set allowed the camera crew members to strap themselves inside. The plane set was padded for actors who shot scenes inside it. Foam replicas of military vehicles were also situated inside the plane set with the actors. An underwater action sequence took weeks to shoot, and involved immersing Hamilton and Reyes in a water tank. Davis said shooting the film was "the hardest thing" she had ever done because of the physical requirements. In late July 2018, Schwarzenegger began filming scenes in Budapest. Filming moved to the United States in mid-October. Schwarzenegger completed filming on October 28, 2018. Filming wrapped in early November 2018. The film, like Cameron's initial Terminator films, is , whereas the previous two films were rated PG-13. Miller said the film is rated R because "the fans kind of demanded it, in a way", saying that "the DNA of Terminator" is an R-rated movie and that "to not do it R feels disingenuous to the source material". Initially, certain scenes were filmed two different ways: with and without R-rated violence and language. This gave the filmmakers an alternative in the event that the film's intended R rating should be reconsidered. The filmmakers eventually abandoned this method after definitively deciding on an R-rated film. During filming, Cameron made further changes to the script to perfect the characters. In some cases, Cameron's script changes were submitted to Miller only a day prior to filming the scene. Hamilton rejected certain lines of dialogue that she felt were uncharacteristic for Sarah Connor. Schwarzenegger also added and changed some of his own lines during filming. Cameron did not visit the set, as he was busy filming his . He also did not want to interfere with Miller's directorial work. A combination of practical effects and CGI were used for a highway chase sequence in which the Rev-9 pursues Grace, Dani, and Diego. The sequence was initially planned to be twice as long. The Rev-9 would have killed a cop and stolen a motorcycle to continue its pursuit, and the motorcycle would be shot at and destroyed. The Rev-9 would subsequently leap onto a truck and then onto Dani's vehicle. The extended sequence was previsualized, but Miller chose not to film it as the sequence was considered "crazy" enough already. Miller had previously wanted to film the motorcycle sequence for his 2016 film Deadpool. Cameron, who also works as a film editor, was heavily involved in the editing of Terminator: Dark Fate. Cameron saw a rough cut of the film in early 2019, and provided Miller with notes on how to improve the film, as he felt it needed to be perfected. He said the film "transformed quite a bit" from the rough cut. The initial cut of the film, known as an assembly cut, was two hours and 50 minutes. Miller's director's cut was closer to the final film's runtime. Three or four minutes were removed from the director's cut, including a few scenes. Some scenes were also trimmed down, including an underwater fight and those onboard the C-5 airplane. In his director's cut, Miller said he removed "a lot of stuff" that Cameron thought was important. Miller also said that he and Cameron had many disagreements about lines of dialogue which Miller thought were "poetic and beautiful", while Cameron thought they were unimportant. Because of the lack of full control throughout the project, Miller said he likely would not work with Cameron again, although the two maintained a good relationship. The opening scene was originally longer as it featured dialogue between Sarah and John. This was cut from the final film as Cameron and Miller believed that the visual effects did not hold up well when the characters spoke. Another deleted scene would go into more detail on how Carl knew about other Terminators arriving from the future. The scene, written by Cameron, would explain that Carl created a cell phone app to track the arrivals, which disrupt cell phone signals. The scene was removed because it was considered too humorous compared to the rest of the sequence, which uses a serious tone as it involves Sarah meeting her son's killer. A deleted scene that is expected to be available on the DVD release depicts Dani in the future as she sends Grace to the past. A shot was deleted from Carl's final fight with the Rev-9 that would depict the latter ripping flesh off of Carl's arm. Miller said, "We had to walk the line between gross and horrific," and he described the arm skin as "hanging like a big piece of jerky," saying, "That's where we drew the line." The film contains 2,600 visual effects shots, and was edited using Adobe Premiere Pro and Adobe After Effects. The visual effects are provided by Industrial Light & Magic and Scanline VFX, supervised by Alex Wang, David Seager, Arek Komorowski and Eric Barba as the Production Supervisor with help from Blur Studio, Digital Domain, Method Studios, Unit Image, Rebellion VFX, The Third Floor, Inc. and Cantina Creative. ILM was initially going to be the sole company working on visual effects, but others were brought on due to the amount of work that would need to be done on the film. The Third Floor handled some of the previsualization. ILM handled the de-aging in the opening scene. ILM's visual effects supervisor, Jeff White, said much work went into the scene to ensure that the characters' faces looked realistic and also had the same likeness as Terminator 2. According to Cameron in February 2019, the film's working title was Terminator: Dark Fate. This was confirmed to be the film's official title the following month.. Tom Holkenborg composed the film's score, reuniting with director Tim Miller after their collaboration in Deadpool. Holkenborg recreated Brad Fiedel's original "Terminator" theme while also introducing Latino elements to reflect the ethnicity of Dani Ramos. Holkenborg used approximately 15 instruments to compose the score, and also used the sound of an anvil and the banging of a washing machine. Holkenborg described his score as being "way more aggressive" than Fiedel's score. The soundtrack was released digitally on November 1, 2019 by Paramount Music.. A first-look promotional image showing the film's three lead actresses was released in August 2018. It was the subject of some Internet comments showing concern for an all-female reboot of the franchise following the repeated failures of similar projects. A teaser trailer for the film was released on May 23, 2019, and features the cover version of Björk's "Hunter" performed by John Mark McMillan. The film's theatrical and international trailers were released on August 29, 2019. The trailers' release date marked the anniversary of the original Judgment Day date given in the second film. Initially, the marketing campaign highlighted the return of Cameron and Hamilton. In the final months, the campaign focused more on the film's action and special effects. Promotional partners included Adobe Inc. and Ruffles. In September 2019, Adobe and Paramount Pictures launched a contest for people to create their own remix version of the trailer using Adobe software and assets from the film. In early October 2019, brief footage of the film was shown during IMAX screenings of Joker. Miller and the cast went on a global press tour to promote the film, and Hamilton attended a premiere event in Seoul on October 21, 2019. Schwarzenegger's character has a van which advertises "Carl's Draperies 888-512-1984" on the side of it. This is a real number that leads to a voice recording of the actor pretending to be the character. The number references May 12, 1984, the date that Kyle Reese time-travels to in the first film. The 2019 video game Gears 5 allows the player to play as either Sarah Connor with Hamilton voicing her character or a T-800 Terminator model. The game was released on September 6, 2019. The T-800 model was later a downloadable playable character in Mortal Kombat 11, using Schwarzenegger's likeness, but without the actor voicing the character. The downloadable content was released on October 8, 2019. A mobile game, titled , was released on November 1, 2019. National Entertainment Collectibles Association released action figures based on the film, and Chronicle Collectibles released an 18-inch T-800 statue.. The film was released in the UK on October 23, 2019 and was released on November 1, 2019 by Paramount Pictures in North America, Tencent Pictures in China, 20th Century Fox outside of North America and China. On October 19, 2019, Alamo Drafthouse Cinema hosted surprise screenings of the film in 15 theaters, disguised as screenings of Terminator 2: Judgment Day. The film's premiere event in the U.S. was to be held on October 28, 2019, at TCL Chinese Theatre in Hollywood, but it was cancelled because of nearby wildfires..  , Terminator: Dark Fate has grossed $61.2 million in the United States and Canada, and $189.8 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $250.9 million. With a production budget between $185–196 million, and an additional $80–100 million spent on marketing, the film will need to gross $450–480 million worldwide in order to break-even. Following its poor global debut, it was estimated the film could end up losing Paramount and Skydance $100–130 million. In the United States and Canada, Dark Fate was released alongside Harriet, Arctic Dogs, and Motherless Brooklyn, and was initially projected to gross $40–47 million from 4,086 theaters in its opening weekend. The film made $2.35 million from Thursday night previews, on-par with the $2.3 million that Genisys made from its Tuesday night previews in 2015, but after making just $10.6 million on its first day, weekend estimates were lowered to $27 million. It went on to debut to $29 million. Although it finished first at the box office, it was the lowest opening in the series since the original film . But Terminator: Dark Fate may be the worst offender thus far as its prologue directly follows T2 and goes for shock value rather than considering what it means to continue the narrative." Richard Trenholm felt the opening twist summed up everything wrong with Dark Fate: "The joy instantly becomes cringeworthy, as this prologue undermines Terminator 2 by killing a major character in such a cursory fashion it just feels silly." Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy counteracted the twist, saying that John Connor only existed to "motivate the other characters and sets the plot in motion" and also pointed out that Sarah's actions only delayed the rise of Skynet's machines but not humanity's, putting John's position in the new timeline into question.. Plans for a new Terminator film trilogy were announced in July 2017. While working on the story for Terminator: Dark Fate that year, Cameron and the writers envisioned the film as the first in the new trilogy. They also worked out the basic storylines for each planned film. By October 2019, Gale Anne Hurd had filed to terminate a copyright grant made 35 years earlier. Under this move, Hurd would again become a 50-percent owner of the rights with Cameron, and Skydance Media could lose the rights to make any additional Terminator films beginning in November 2020, unless a new deal is worked out. Skydance responded that it had a deal in place with Cameron and that it "controls the rights to the Terminator franchise for the foreseeable future." In October 2019, Cameron said that sequels to Terminator: Dark Fate would further explore the relationship between humans and artificial intelligence, while stating that a resolution between the two feuding sides would be the ultimate outcome. That month, Schwarzenegger said that Cameron would write the Terminator: Dark Fate sequels, and that Cameron would begin work on the next film in early 2020, for release in 2022. Although the events of Terminator: Dark Fate erase Schwarzenegger's T-800 character from existence, Cameron did not rule out the possibility of Schwarzenegger reprising the character: "Look, if we make a ton of money with this film and the cards say that they like Arnold, I think Arnold can come back. I'm a writer. I can think of scenarios. We don't have a plan for that right now, let me put it that way." Hamilton said in October 2019 that she would probably reprise her role for a sequel, although she joked that she would fake her own death to avoid appearing in it, saying that making Terminator: Dark Fate "really was hard" because of the physical training she had to undergo. Following the film's underwhelming opening in box-office, sources close to Skydance told The Hollywood Reporter that there are no plans for further films.