The 2019 Hong Kong protests, also known as the Anti-Extradition Law Amendment Bill which resulted in a large number of injuries and arrests. The protests have been largely described as "leaderless" and protesters have used various tactics, including assaulting civilians, to pressure the government, which, alongside the police, have received the lowest approval ratings since the 1997 handover in public opinion polls. The Central People's Government has indicated that it sees the protests as the "worst crisis in Hong Kong" since the handover in 1997. The protests have resulted in two deaths, and several suicides.. The Fugitive Offenders and Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters Legislation to establish a mechanism for case-by-case transfers of fugitives, on the order of the chief executive, to any jurisdiction with which the city lacks a formal extradition treaty. One such jurisdiction would be mainland China. The inclusion of mainland China in the amendment is of concern to different sectors of Hong Kong society. Pro-democracy advocates fear the removal of the separation of the region's jurisdiction from mainland Chinese laws administered by the Communist Party, thereby eroding the "one country, two systems" principle in practice since the 1997 handover. Opponents of the bill urged the Hong Kong government to explore other avenues, such as establishing an extradition arrangement solely with Taiwan, and to sunset the arrangement immediately after the surrender of the suspect. The 2019 Hong Kong protests came four and a half years after the Umbrella Revolution, which began after the decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress regarding proposed reforms to the Hong Kong electoral system which were largely seen as restrictive. However, the movement ended in failure as the government offered no concessions. Since then, democratic development has stalled: only half of the seats in the Legislative Council remain directly elected, and the chief executive of Hong Kong continues to be voted by the small-circle Election Committee. The 2017 imprisonment of Hong Kong democracy activists further dashed the city's hope of meaningful political reform. Citizens began to fear the loss of the "high degree of autonomy" as provided for in the Hong Kong Basic Law, as the government of the People's Republic of China appeared to be increasingly and overtly interfering with Hong Kong's affairs. Notably, the Hong Kong Legislative Council oath-taking controversy ended with the disqualification of six lawmakers following a ruling by courts in Mainland China; the Causeway Bay Books disappearances sparked concerns over state-sanctioned rendition and extrajudicial detention. The rise of localism and pro-independence was marked by the campaign for the 2016 New Territories East by-election by activist Edward Leung as fewer and fewer youth in Hong Kong identify themselves as Chinese – Pollsters at the University of Hong Kong found that the younger respondents were, the more distrustful they were of the Chinese government. By 2019, almost no Hong Kong youth identified themselves as "Chinese". The Moral and National Education controversy in 2012, severely shook young people's confidence in the systems which they believed protected their rights. With the approach of 2047, when the Basic Law is set to expire, and along with it the constitutional guarantees enshrined within it, sentiments of an uncertain future have driven youth to join the protests against the extradition bill. For some protesters, the Umbrella Revolution was an inspiration that brought about a political awakening. Others, who felt that peaceful methods were ineffective, resorted to increasingly radical methods to express their views. Media has noted that unlike the 2014 protests, protesters in 2019 were driven by a sense of desperation rather than hope, and that the aims of the protests have evolved from withdrawing the bill to fighting for greater freedom and liberties. The unaffordability of housing prices was also cited as an underlying cause of anger among Hong Kongers. Hong Kong is "the world's most expensive city to buy a home". This is because, unlike the comparable city-state of Singapore, Hong Kong has not secured affordable or public housing for the city's population. That is due to the fact that since the colonial period, the city's politics have largely been ruled by the business elite. That has also meant a few powerful families having significant influence over property development, with the construction of commercial properties on key real estate with limited competition. Furthermore, a significant amount of the local government's revenue is made from land sales to developers.. Initially, protesters solely demanded the withdrawal of the extradition bill. Following an escalation in the severity of policing tactics against demonstrators on 12 June and the bill's suspension on 15 June, the objective of the protesters has been to achieve the following five demands: Complete withdrawal of the extradition bill from the legislative process: Although the chief executive announced indefinite suspension of the bill on 15 June, reading on it may be quickly resumed. The bill was "pending resumption of second reading" in the legislative council. The bill was formally withdrawn on 23 October. Retraction of the "riot" characterisation: The government originally characterised the 12 June protest as "riots". Later the description was amended to say there were "some" protesters who rioted. However, protesters contest the existence of acts of rioting during the 12 June protest. Release and exoneration of arrested protesters: Protesters consider the arrests to be politically motivated; they also question the legitimacy of police arresting protesters at hospitals through access to their confidential medical data in breach of patient privacy. Establishment of an independent commission of inquiry into police conduct and use of force during the protests: Civic groups felt that the level of violence used by the police on 12 June, specifically those against protesters who were not committing any offences when they were set upon, was unjustified; police performing stop-and-search to numerous passers-by near the protest site without probable cause was also considered abusive. Some officers' failure to display or show their police identification number or warrant card despite being required to do so by the Police General Orders is seen to be a breakdown of accountability. The existing watchdog, Independent Police Complaints Council lacks independence, and its functioning relies on police co-operation. :As the number of allegations of police brutality and misconduct continued to increase, some Hong Kong protesters have begun to call for the disbandment of the Police Force. Resignation of Carrie Lam and the implementation of universal suffrage for legislative council elections and for the election of the chief executive: Currently, the chief executive is selected by a 1,200-member Election Committee, and 30 of the 70 legislative council seats are filled by representatives from different sectors of the economy, forming the majority of the so-called functional constituencies, most of which have few electors..  Demosistō held a sit-in protest event at the Central Government Complex on 15 March, it was the first protest against the extradition bill. Then, the Civil Human Rights Front, a platform for 50 pro-democracy groups, launched a protest march against the bill on 31 March 2019 and another on 28 April 2019. The anti-extradition issue attracted more attention when pro-democratic lawmakers in the legislative council launched a filibuster campaign against the bill. In response, the Secretary of Security John Lee announced that the government would resume the second reading of the bill in full council on 12 June, bypassing the Bills Committee, whose role would have been scrutinising the bill. With the second reading of the bill scheduled for 12 June, the CHRF launched their third protest march on 9 June. While Police estimated an attendance of the march on Hong Kong Island at 270,000, the organisers claimed that 1.03&nbsp;million people attended the rally. Carrie Lam insisted the second reading debate on the bill be resumed on 12 June. Protesters successfully stopped the LegCo from resuming the second reading of the bill by surrounding the LegCo Complex. Riot police dispersed protesters using controversial methods such as kettling, firing tear gas, bean bag rounds and rubber bullets, allegedly assaulting journalists in the process, Police Commissioner Stephen Lo declared the clashes a "riot", although the police itself were subsequently criticised for using excessive force, such as firing tear gas at a crowd who were peacefully protesting near CITIC Tower, and for the lack of identifying numbers on police officers. Following the clashes, protesters began asking for an independent inquiry into police brutality and urging the government to retract the "riot" characterisation. On 15 June, Carrie Lam announced the suspension of the bill but did not fully withdraw the bill. A 35-year-old man committed suicide in protest at Lam's decision. CHRF claimed a record-breaking "almost 2 million plus 1 citizens" had participated in the 16 June protest, while the police estimated that there were 338,000 demonstrators at its peak. Protesters besieged the Police headquarters on 21 and 24 June for several hours and dispersed peacefully at night; on 24 June, they also blockaded other government buildings. Protesters also began to call for international support and visited the consulates of member states of the G20 expected at the 2019 Osaka summit on 28 and 29 June. The CHRF claimed a record turnout of 550,000 for their annual march on 1 July, while police estimated around 190,000 at the peak. The protest was largely peaceful. At night, protesters stormed the Legislative Council, while police took little action to stop them. Partly angered by several more cases of suicides since 15 June, protesters smashed furniture, defaced the Hong Kong emblem, and presented a new ten-point manifesto. Following the 1 July protest, protests spread out to different areas in Hong Kong. The first anti-extradition protest in Kowloon was held on 7 July, when protesters marched from Tsim Sha Tsui to West Kowloon station. Clashes occurred later in Tsim Sha Tsui and Mong Kok. Once again, police officer's failure to display their warrant cards drew criticism. The protest on 14 July in Sha Tin started peacefully but escalated into intense confrontations with the police when the protesters were kettled inside New Town Plaza. Sun Hung Kai Properties came under criticism from protesters for allowing the police to enter the shopping centre without due authorisation. CHRF held another anti-extradition protest on 21 July on Hong Kong Island. Protesters advanced past the police-mandated endpoint, and some protesters surrounded the Liaison Office in Sai Ying Pun, where they defaced the Chinese national emblem. While a standoff between the protesters and the police occurred in Sheung Wan, groups of white-clad individuals, suspected triad members, appeared and indiscriminately attacked people inside Yuen Long station. The pro-Beijing lawmaker Junius Ho was later seen greeting the group, which led to accusations that he supported the attackers. Yuen Long residents stayed indoors the following day in fear of further attacks. The police were much criticised for their sluggish response. On 27 July, protesters marched to Yuen Long, despite opposition from rural groups and the police. The protest escalated into violent clashes inside Yuen Long station. The next day, protesters again defied the police ban and marched to Sai Wan and Causeway Bay. To support the arrestees charged with rioting, protesters rallied near the police stations in Kwai Chung, and Tin Shui Wai, where protesters were attacked by fireworks launched from a moving vehicle. Protesters returned to Mong Kok on 3 August, though some marched to block the Cross-Harbour Tunnel toll plaza in Hung Hom, and escalated into clashes between the police and local residents in Wong Tai Sin near the disciplined services quarters. Marches in Tseung Kwan O and Kennedy Town on 4 August and in Tai Po on 10 August escalated into citywide conflicts as protesters dispersed wherever the riot police were deployed. A call for a general strike on 5 August was answered by about 350,000 people, according to the Confederation of Trade Unions; over 200 flights had to be cancelled. Protests were held in seven districts in Hong Kong. To disperse the protesters, the police force used more than 800 canisters of tear gas. Protesters in North Point were attacked by a group of stick-wielding men, leading to violent clashes. Various incidents involving alleged police brutality on 11 August – police shot bean bag rounds ruptured the eye of a female protester, the use of tear gas indoors, the deployment of undercover police as agents-provocateurs, and the firing of pepper ball rounds at protesters at a very close range – prompted protesters to stage a three-day sit-in at Hong Kong International Airport from 12 to 14 August, forcing the Airport Authority to cancel numerous flights on those days. On 13 August, protesters at the airport cornered and assaulted two men they suspected of being either undercover police or agents for the mainland, including a man later identified as a Global Times reporter. A peaceful rally was held in Victoria Park by the CHRF on 18 August to denounce police brutality. The CHRF claimed attendance of at least 1.7&nbsp;million people. The police put the attendance in Victoria Park football areas at 128,000 at the peak. On the evening of 23 August, an estimated 210,000 people participated in the "Hong Kong Way" campaign, in which participants formed a 50-kilometre human chain stretching along both sides of Hong Kong harbour to draw attention to the movement's . The chain extended across the top of Lion Rock. Starting from the Kwun Tong protest on 24 August, protesters began to target railway operator MTR after it closed four stations ahead of the legal, authorised protest. During the protests of 25 August in Tsuen Wan and Kwai Tsing Districts, hardline protesters threw bricks and gasoline bombs toward the police, who in turn responded with volleys of tear gas; police water cannon trucks were deployed for the first time. During the protest, one officer fired a warning shot toward the sky, marking the first use of a live round since the demonstrations broke out in June. Ignoring a police ban, thousands of protesters took to the streets of Hong Kong Island on 31 August following the arrests of high-profile pro-democracy activists and lawmakers the previous day. At night, the Special Tactical Squad stormed Prince Edward station, where they beat and pepper-sprayed the commuters inside. Protesters rallied outside the Mong Kok police station in the following weeks to condemn the police brutality and demanded the MTR Corporation to release the CCTV footage of that night as rumours began to circulate on the internet that the police's operation has caused death, which the police have denied. Protesters once again targeted the Hong Kong International Airport on 1 September. With transport suspended by MTR, some protesters walked on the North Lantau Highway back to the urban area. On 2 and 3 September, thousands of secondary school and university students boycotted classes on the first two days of the new term to join the protests. On 4 September, Carrie Lam announced that she would formally withdraw the extradition bill in October and introduce additional measures to help calm the situation. However, protests continued to have all of the five demands met. On 8 September, the protesters marched to the US consulate to call for the passage of the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act, and organised flashmob rallies to sing the protest anthem "Glory to Hong Kong". Protesters continued their campaign to block the airport, and boycotted shops and corporations perceived to be pro-Beijing. A mass protest that took place on 15 September descended into chaos near North Point as the local Fujianese physically assaulted the protesters who retreated there. A sit-in in Yuen Long on 21 September escalated into conflicts between protesters and the police. Brought to an alley and surrounded by numerous officers in riot gear, a man was kicked by an officer. The police later denied the accusation, saying that videos only showed kicking of a "yellow object". His response created a widespread backlash. Carrie Lam held the first public meeting in Queen Elizabeth Stadium in Wan Chai with 150 members of the public. Protesters demanding to talk to her surrounded the venue and trapped her inside for four hours. On 28 September, the CHRF held a rally to commemorate the fifth anniversary of the Umbrella Revolution. On the next day, protesters marched against the Chinese Communist Party in defiance of a police ban. Solidarity protests were held on the same day in 40 cities around the world. On 1 October, mass protests and violent conflicts occurred between the protesters and police during the 70th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various districts of Hong Kong, leading to the first usage of live rounds by police, with one protester shot in the chest by police in Tsuen Wan while trying to hit a policeman with a pipe. The police fired around 1,400 tear gas canisters and made 269 arrests on one day, setting a new record for both since the protests began in June. On 4 October, Carrie Lam invoked the Emergency Regulations Ordinance to impose a law to ban wearing face masks in public gatherings, attempting to curb the ongoing protests. The enactment of the law was followed by continued demonstrations as they showed up in various districts in Hong Kong, blocking major thoroughfares, vandalising shops perceived to be pro-Beijing and paralysing the MTR system. In Yuen Long, a 14-year-old boy was shot in the leg by a plainclothes officer after he was attacked by some protesters for bumping into a person. Protests and citywide flashmob rallies against the anti-mask law and the invocation of the emergency ordinance persisted throughout the month. The ban was declared unconstitutional by the High Court on 18 November. On 14 October, thousands of protesters rallied at Chater Garden to support the passage of the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act, which was subsequently passed unanimously by the US House of Representatives. Ethnic minorities stood in solidarity with the protesters outside Chungking Mansions after the protest organiser, Jimmy Sham was attacked allegedly by South Asians. The gates of the Kowloon Mosque were sprayed with blue-dyed water by a water cannon truck during police clearance. The police and Lam then issued an apology to the Muslim community. On 23 October, Secretary John Lee officially withdrew the extradition bill. Protesters besieged the Tai Hing Operation Base in Tuen Mun on 28 and 30 October after it had allegedly leaked tear gas. 30 October saw the police conducting forceful arrests inside private areas and breaching into the lobby of a building in Siu Hin Court, ordering residents inside to kneel down with their hands in the air or behind their backs allegedly for more than half an hour. On 2 November, a mostly peaceful but unapproved election gathering at Victoria Park saw police quickly responding by employing tear gas. Later that day, protesters attempted to block major roads, and vandalised pro-Beijing businesses, including the premises of Xinhua, the state news organisation of China. Protesters gathered around Sheung Tak Estate late night on 3 November, provoking police to respond with tear gas. Alex Chow Tsz-lok, a 22-year-old student at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, was later found unconscious on the second floor of Sheung Tak Estate's car park, suspected to have fallen from the third floor. The student died on 8 November, after two unsuccessful brain surgeries. After the death of Alex Chow, protesters engaged in flashmob rallies against the police and gathered for vigils in various districts in Hong Kong as they accused the police of obstructing the ambulance for at least 20 minutes, causing a delay in treatment, an accusation which the police denied. In response to Alex Chow's death, protesters planned a city-wide strike starting from 11 November, and disrupted transport in the morning in various districts in Hong Kong. That morning, police fired live rounds in Sai Wan Ho; an unarmed 21-year-old man was wounded after being shot by police, and was sent to hospital. The police defended the shooting and alleged that the protester was trying to grab his gun. On 11 November, the police also fired tear gas in during a lunchtime protest, causing businesses to close early. On 14 November, an elderly man died from a head injury during a confrontation between protesters and local government supporters in Sheung Shui. For the first time, during a standoff on 11 November, police shot numerous rounds of tear gas, sponge grenades and rubber bullets into the campuses of universities. The students from Chinese University of Hong Kong confronted the police for two consecutive days, with police firing numerous tear gas and projectiles into the campus, while protesters put up roadblocks and threw bricks and petrol bombs. Following the conflict, protesters briefly occupied several universities, which became their strongholds as they crafted various improvised offensive weapons inside. Several universities reported that protesters had taken away some dangerous chemicals. On 17 November confrontation between protesters and police occurred near the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Police fired tear gas and shot blue-dye water to disperse protesters, while a media liaison police was hit by an arrow from protesters. Police besieged the university, which concluded with the police storming into the campus and arrested several protesters in the early morning on 18 November. Among those arrested while leaving were many volunteer medics. There were multiple attempts by the remaining protesters to leave the university, including rappelling down a bridge and crawling through the sewers. Other escape attempts were thwarted by the police. With PolyU under complete lockdown by the police and students inside running short of supplies, protesters outside the campus attempted to charge the police's cordon lines to rescue those trapped inside but were repelled by tear gas and pepper balls. The police's action in Yau Ma Tei resulted in a stampede, which was denied by the police but confirmed by firefighters. On subsequent days, more protesters from PolyU surrendered to police. The siege continued into 23 November, with around 50 protesters remaining. The campus's hygiene quickly deteroirated, and the protesters inside reported being mentally and physically weak. More than 1,100 people were arrested in and around PolyU over the course of the siege. The police concluded the siege on 29 November, with police and other professionals having entered the site the previous day to start clearing hazardous materials, including large amounts of petrol bombs and chemicals, left behind by the protesters. Protests subsided upon calls during the 24 November 2019 Hong Kong local elections for 452 district council seats that are viewed as a litmus test on public support for the pro-democracy protesters. The pro-democrats delivered their biggest electoral landslide in Hong Kong history, seizing control of 17 of the 18 District Councils of Hong Kong, tripling their seats from about 124 to 389, and would be able to capture the 117 seats in the Election Committee District Council subsectors which was responsible for electing the Chief Executive. Pro-Beijing parties and independents won only 61 seats, a loss of 242 seats. The flagship pro-Beijing party Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong received its largest defeat in history, losing nearly a hundred seats, while Regina Ip's New People's Party were completely wiped out. A dozen of prominent pro-Beijing heavyweights lost re-election, including Junius Ho. Hundreds of people marched along Lower Albert Road beside the US consulate on 1 December, to thank President Donald Trump for signing the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act. Later in the day, protesters marched an approved police route in Tsim Tsa Tsui, but at 4:45pm police fired tear gas at some protesters, who were throwing bricks and had deviated off the route. The march included the shouting of slogans and the holding of posters. It then ended an hour early at 5pm..  Clashes between protesters and counter-protesters became frequent since the movement began in June. During a pro-police rally on 30 June, the counter-protesters began directing profanities at their opposition counterparts and destroyed their Lennon Wall and the memorial for Marco Leung, resulting in intense confrontations between the two camps. Pro-Beijing citizens, wearing "I love HK police" T-shirts and waving the Chinese national flag, assaulted people perceived to be protesters on 14 September in Fortress Hill. Lennon Walls became sites of conflict between the two camps, with pro-Beijing citizens attempting to tear down the messages or removing poster arts. Some protesters and pedestrians were beaten, slashed and knife attacked near Lennon Walls. Some civilians also allegedly attempted to ram their cars into the crowds of protesters or the barricades set up by them. Protest organisers, including Jimmy Sham from the CHRF, and pro-democratic lawmakers such as Lam Cheuk-ting and Roy Kwong were assaulted and attacked. On 3 November, politician Andrew Chiu had his ear bitten off by a Chinese mainlander who had reportedly knifed three other people outside Cityplaza. Meanwhile, pro-Beijing lawmaker Junius Ho was stabbed by a man pretending to be his supporter on 6 November. The 2019 Yuen Long attack occurred following a mass protest organised by the CHRF on 21 July. Suspected gangsters have claimed that they would "defend" their "homeland", and threatened all anti-extradition bill protesters not to set foot in Yuen Long. The attack saw the perpetrators attacking commuters in the concourse of Yuen Long station indiscriminately, on the platform and inside train compartments, which resulted in widespread backlash from the community. The Department of Justice have since been criticised by some lawyers for making "politically motivated" prosecutions, since the Yuen Long attack assailants have not been charged several weeks after the attacks while young protesters were charged with rioting several days after the protests. The protesters were attacked with fireworks in Tin Shui Wai on 31 July, and then attacked by knife-wielding men in Tsuen Wan and suspected "Fujianese" gang members wielding long poles in North Point on 5 August, though protesters fought back the attackers. Amidst frustration that the police have failed to prosecute the pro-government violent counter-protesters and being increasingly distrustful toward the police due to the allegations, protesters began clashing with counter-protesters more frequently. They clashed with each other inside Amoy Garden on 14 September and then in North Point on the next day. Hard-core protesters also began taking justice into their own hands, attacking individuals perceived to be hostile; the protesters described vigilante attacks as "settling matters privately" . Pro-Beijing actress Celine Ma, and the taxi driver who was accused of ramming into the protesters in Sham Shui Po on 8 October were attacked. A middle-aged man was doused with flammable liquid and set on fire by a protester when he confronted the protesters at Ma On Shan Station on 11 November. On 14 November, an elderly man died from a head injury during a confrontation between protesters and local government supporters in Sheung Shui. Doxing and cyberbullying was a tactic used by both supporters and opponents of the protests. Some protesters doxed and cyberbullied some police officers and their families and uploaded their personal information online. Hong Kong Police have since obtained an injunction from the court, prohibiting any people from sharing any personal information of police officers and their families. Some protesters found their personal information and photos circulating on pro-Beijing circles on Facebook and other social media platforms after being stopped and searched by police, suspecting police to have leaked the photos they took during the stop-and-searches. In a response, the police said they had procedures to ensure that their members comply with privacy laws. HK Leaks, an anonymous website based in Russia and promoted by groups linked to the Communist Party of China, has doxed about 200 people seen as supportive of the protests. An Apple Daily reporter who was doxed by the website was targeted by sexual harassment via "hundreds of threatening calls". According to the Office of the Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data, as of 30 August 2019, the proportion of doxing cases involving police officers comprised 59% of all reported and discovered cases of doxing, while the remaining 41% involved other people such as protesters, those holding different political views, citizens and their family members. The proportion of cases involving non-police officers increased from 28% two days prior. Both sides of the protests have been spreading disinformation, which has caused heightened reactions and polarisation among the public..  A Guardian article dated 22 October 2019 reported that "protesters have tracked at least nine cases of suicides that appear to be directly linked to the demonstrations" since June. In five of these cases, the victims left suicide notes related to the protests, and three were attributed to events following the extradition bill. One note even stated: "What Hong Kong needs is a revolution." The first suicide took place on 15 June 2019, when 35-year-old Marco Leung Ling-kit climbed the elevated podium on the rooftop of Pacific Place, a shopping centre in Admiralty at 4:30&nbsp;pm. Wearing a yellow raincoat with the words "Brutal police are cold-blooded" and "Carrie Lam is killing Hong Kong" in Chinese written on the back, he hung two banners on the scaffolding with several anti-extradition slogans in Chinese and English. After a five-hour standoff, during which police officers and Democratic Party legislator Roy Kwong attempted to talk him down, Leung fell to his death, missing an inflatable cushion set up by firefighters. A shrine appeared at the scene soon afterward. On 11 July another vigil was held, where thousands showed up leaving sunflowers at the memorial site. Artists in Prague have also honoured the event, who have painted a memorial on the Lennon Wall in the Czech Republic, depicting a yellow raincoat along with words of well wishes. A 21-year-old Education University of Hong Kong student, Lo Hiu-Yan, jumped to her death from Ka Fuk Estate in Fanling on 29 June. She had left two notes written on a stairwell wall with red marker. A third suicide occurred the next day when a 29-year-old woman, Zhita Wu, jumped from the International Financial Centre. On 4 July, a 28-year-old woman only identified by the surname Mak died after jumping off a building in Cheung Sha Wan. A fifth suicide occurred on 22 July, when a 26-year-old man identified by the surname Fan died after jumping from Kwong Yuen Estate after an argument with his parents about his political stance and being driven from the house. Neighbours of Fan left flowers near the site. A 22-year-old Hong Kong University of Science and Technology student named Alex Chow Tsz-Lok fell from the 3rd floor to the 2nd floor of a multistory car park in Sheung Tak Estate, Tseung Kwan O during a police dispersal operation on 4 November, which included firing tear gas at the building Chow was in. He remained in critical condition for several days before succumbing to cardiac arrest on 8 November. The cause of his fall remained unknown, but while police claimed that he fell solely accidentally, protesters accused the police of pushing him, causing his fall. Protesters also claimed that he was fleeing from tear gas. After reviewing footage from over 30 cameras provided by Link REIT, investigators ruled that Chow could not have been pushed by police officers as the police entered the car park after the estimated time frame of his fall, could not have been hit by beanbags or rubber bullets shot by the police as the distance was too great to reach him, and could not have fallen due to tear gas as no person in the area was affected and no smoke filled the area. Protesters accused the police of intentionally obstructing ambulance access to Chow, resulting in a delay in treatment, but police has denied the accusations. The Fire Services Department stated that the ambulance assigned to Chow was blocked by buses and private vehicles but that the ambulance did not come in contact with the police that were on duty. Chow's death became the first fatality linked to a scene where police officers and protesters clashed. On 14 November, a 70-year-old man died from head injuries sustained a day prior. On 13 November, in Sheung Shui, a violent clash had erupted between a group of protesters and a group of local residents which saw both groups hurling bricks at each other. The confrontation between the two groups happened when local residents tried to clear the bricks left by protesters in the street. According to the police, the man, who was not involved in the fight, was using his mobile phone to record the conflict in the area of the fighting, but was hit in the head by a brick thrown at him by a black-clad protester. The victim, identified as an outsourced worker of the Food and Environmental Hygiene Department, remained in critical condition until he died on the next day. The police classified his death as a murder case as they believe that the attacker "maliciously deliberately" carried out the act. His death is the first fatality directly attributed to the violent protests.. The 2019 Hong Kong protests have been largely described as "leaderless". No group or political party has claimed leadership over the movement. They mainly played a supportive role, such as applying for Letters of No Objection from the police or mediating conflicts between protesters and police officers. Protesters commonly used LIHKG, an online forum similar to Reddit, as well as Telegram, an similar to Whatsapp, to communicate and brainstorm ideas for protests and make collective decisions. Unlike previous protests, the 2019 protests were diversified to over 20 different neighbourhoods throughout Hong Kong Island, Kowloon and the New Territories witnessing protests. There are mainly two groups of protesters, namely the "peaceful, rational and non-violent" . The assault on reporter Fu Guohao, who was suspected to be a mainland agent by the protesters at the Airport on 13 August, was described as a "setback" in maintaining public support. 60 per cent of Best Mart 360 stores were vandalised after being accused of having ties to "Fujian gangs" that have clashed with protesters. The company denied the allegation. Corporations believed to be pro-Beijing, such as Maxim's Caterers, mainland Chinese companies such as Bank of China, shops engaging in parallel trading, were also vandalised or spray-painted. Protesters also directed violence at symbols of the government by storming the Legislative Council Complex, vandalising government and pro-Beijing lawmakers' offices, and defacing symbols representing China. A large number of MTR stations were vandalised and subjected to arson. MTR has become a target of vandalism by the protesters after it shut down four stations ahead of a legal, authorised protest after being pressured by Chinese media. Protesters also disrupted traffic by setting up roadblocks, damaging traffic lights, and deflating the tyres of buses. The government, the police and state-run media often labelled the radical group of protesters as "masked rioters", while The Guardian noted that there was "little of the random smashing and looting that characterises most riots", quoting a statement from an academic at the Education University of Hong Kong to the effect that vandalism of demonstrators was focused on what they perceived to be targets that embodied 'injustice'. Protesters have since apologised for accidentally vandalising perceived "innocent" shops.. Hong Kong police were accused of using excessive and disproportionate force and not following international safety guidelines while using their weapons. According to Amnesty International, the police have aimed horizontally while aiming, targeting the heads and torsos of protesters. Its use of bean bag rounds and rubber bullets have allegedly ruptured the eyes of several protesters and one eye of an Indonesian journalist. The police were found to have been using tear gas as an offensive weapon, firing it indoors inside a railway station, and using expired tear gas, which could release toxic gases upon combustion. The usage of tear gas sparked public health concerns as approximate 10,000 volleys of gas have been fired since June. Chemical residues were found on different public facilities in various neighbourhoods, and a reporter was diagnosed with chloracne following sustained exposure to tear gas, but the government refused to disclose the chemical composition of the gas, citing "operational concerns". Several police operations, in particular in Prince Edward station, where the Special Tactical Squad has launched investigations into alleged police misconducts in the protests, although the protesters demand an independent commission of inquiry instead, as the members of the IPCC are mainly pro-establishment and IPCC lacks the power to investigate, make definitive judgements and hand out penalties. Carrie Lam has rejected this demand and insisted that the IPCC was able to fulfill the task, On 8 November, a group of independent experts appointed by Lam to advise the IPCC concluded that the police watchdog lacked the "powers, capacity and independent investigative capability necessary" to fulfill its role as a police watchdog group given the current protest situation..  Official statistics showed that Hong Kong had slipped into recession as its economy had shrunk in the second and third quarters of 2019. Retail sales have declined and consumers' appetite for spending has decreased. During the days of protests, protesters brought "mixed fortunes" to the businesses according to the South China Morning Post. Some restaurants saw their customers cancelling their bookings and some banks and shops were forced to shut their doors. Supplies for goods were also halted and obstructed due to the protest. Meanwhile, some shops prospered as nearby protesters bought food and other commodities. Protest supplies such as gas masks were running low in stock in both Hong Kong and Taiwan. Starting from August, supporters of the protesters labelled different establishments based on their political stance and chose to only consume in "yellow-ribbon" shops while boycotting companies who have expressed an anti-protest view. The protests also affected property owners. Fearing the instability in Hong Kong, some investors abandoned the purchases of land. Desire to purchase properties also declined, as overall property transactions declined by 24% when compared with the Umbrella Revolution. Property developers were forced to reduce the selling price. Trade shows reported decreased attendance and revenue, and many firms cancelled their events in Hong Kong. The Hang Seng Index declined by at least 4.8% from 9 June to late August. As interest in trading waned, companies that had already applied for initial public offerings camps created since the Umbrella Revolution. People who oppose the protests in a self-dubbed "silent majority", including wavering sideline supporters and moderates who say that they have been driven away by the violence, argued that protesters were spreading "chaos and fear" across the city, causing damage to the economy and harming people not involved in the protests. On the other hand, some protesters believed that the disruptions caused were necessary trade-offs for a movement that they felt can "save the city" amidst fears that Beijing would further encroach the city's freedoms and its semi-autonomous status. There were more frequent and more violent clashes between people from the two camps, resulting in intense physical conflicts. Some mainland Chinese living in Hong Kong have expressed fears for their own safety as anti-Mainlander sentiment became high. Family relationships were strained, as parents have argued with their children over their attending protests, either because they felt that the protests may cost them their future, or they disagreed with their children's political stance or manners of the protests. Social workers have voiced their concerns for some of the young protesters, whose emotional health has become unstable. Experts noted the eruption of despair in the city during the protests, though protesters have chanted rallying cries to urge people not to commit suicide. Among the protesters, there was a stronger sense of solidarity when compared with the Umbrella Revolution. Instead of condemning and criticising each other, protesters reflected and reminded each other in a friendly manner instead. As the protests continued to escalate, citizens showed an increasing tolerance to confrontational and violent actions. Pollsters have found out that among 8,000 respondents, 90% of them believed that the use of these tactics was understandable because of the government's refusal to respond to the demands. Unity among the protesters was seen across a wide spectrum of age groups, with middle-aged and elderly volunteers attempting to separate the police and the young protesters in the frontline and providing various forms of assistance. Various professions such as teachers, civil servants, accountants, medical professionals, and finance sector have organised protests or rallies to stand in solidarity with protesters. While some more moderate protesters reported that the increase in violence alienated them from the protests, public opinion polls conducted by CUHK suggested that the movement was able to maintain public support.. Carrie Lam continued to push the second reading of the bill despite a mass anti-extradition bill protest that attracted 1&nbsp;million people, have doubled the number of troops stationed near the Hong Kong-Shenzhen border. The army itself also filmed and uploaded a video of an anti-riot drill in Shenzhen, which was considered a "thinly veiled warning to Hong Kong" by Time. On 6 October, the PLA issued its first warning to the protesters, who were shining laser lights on the exterior of the PLA garrison in Kowloon Tong. As a result of the protests, many nations have issued travel warnings for Hong Kong. Demonstrations in reaction to the protests have taken place in locations around the world, such as Los Angeles, Berlin, Canberra, Frankfurt, Melbourne, London, New York City, Seoul, San Francisco, Delhi, Sydney, Taipei, Tokyo, Montreal, Toronto, Vilnius and Vancouver. Solidarity rallies held by Hong Kong international students studying abroad in overseas universities were often disrupted by mainland Chinese supporters. Following the death of Chow Tsz-lok, in London, Secretary for Justice Teresa Cheng was heckled and jostled by supporters of the protests, who called her "murderer" in London, when she was entering Bloomsbury Square to give a lecture. She fell on the ground and injured her arm. Some protesters in the concurrent 2019 Catalan protests have claimed inspiration from, and solidarity with the Hong Kong protests. The United States House of Representatives and Senate both unanimously passed the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act in light of the extradition bill and protests, with amendments that differ between the two versions needing resolution before being presented to President Donald Trump for approval. Various United States politicians have expressed disapproval of corporate decisions related to the protests. A former employee from the British consulate in Hong Kong, Simon Cheng, reported being tortured by Chinese officials when he was detained for 15 days in China. His captors reportedly called him "an enemy of the state" and "a British spy and secret agent", and put him in a torture device known as the "tiger chair", which limited the detainee's movement to force Cheng to "confess" that the UK has instigated the protests. Chinese authorities arrested him in Hong Kong's West Kowloon station immigration checkpoint after he returned from Shenzhen for "soliciting prostitutes". Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs Dominic Raab released a statement saying that he was "outraged by the disgraceful mistreatment" and that he has summoned the Chinese ambassador. China, however, rejected the summon and summoned the British ambassador to "express their indignation".