'Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan', or simply 'Jack Ryan', is an American political thriller spy web television series, based on characters from the fictional "Ryanverse" created by Tom Clancy, that premiered on August 31, 2018 on Prime Video. The series was created by Carlton Cuse and Graham Roland. Cuse serves as an executive producer alongside John Krasinski, Michael Bay, and Mace Neufeld, among others. Krasinski also stars in the series as the title character, making him the fifth actor to portray the character after Alec Baldwin, Harrison Ford, Ben Affleck, and Chris Pine from the film series. In April 2018, Amazon renewed the series for its second season which premiered on October 31, 2019. In February 2019, Amazon renewed the series for a third season.. The first season follows the titular CIA analyst as he is wrenched from the security of his desk job into the field after discovering a string of dubious bank transfers, which are being carried out by a rising Islamic extremist named Suleiman. The second season sees Jack in the middle of political warfare in a fictionalized corrupt Venezuela "suffering an economic meltdown that has fueled mass migration". This concept was less than pleasing to the country's actual government; one spokesperson described the theme as "crass war propaganda disguised as entertainment"..  John Krasinski as Dr. Jack Ryan, a Marine veteran and financial analyst working for the Central Intelligence Agency .  On September 22, 2015, it was announced that Carlton Cuse and Graham Roland were developing a television series adaptation of Tom Clancy's . The potential series was described as "a new contemporary take on the character using the novels as source material". Production companies involved with the project were slated to include Paramount Television, Platinum Dunes and Skydance Media. A week later, following a bidding war among multiple television networks, it was announced that streaming service Amazon Video had purchased the rights to the series. Amazon proceeded to put the production into development during which time they ordered three scripts written by Cuse and Roland. On August 16, 2016, it was announced that the production had been given a straight-to-series order for a first season consisting of ten episodes. In January 2017, it was announced that Morten Tyldum would direct the pilot and that Daniel Sackheim would direct multiple episodes and produce the series. On April 24, 2018, it was reported that Amazon had renewed the series. The second season will be set in South America, where Ryan takes on "a dangerous, declining democratic regime." On May 14, 2018, it was reported that Richard Rutkowski had served as cinematographer for the pilot and that Checco Varese had acted in the role for the following seven episodes of season one. On August 14, 2018, it was announced that Phil Abraham was joining the series as an executive producer and would direct the first two episodes of the second season. On September 4, 2018, it was reported that Dennie Gordon would direct three episodes of season two and serve as an executive producer. On February 13, 2019, Amazon renewed the series for a third season at the TCA press tour. On October 24, 2019, Paul Scheuring has been reported to be the showrunner for season three, as well as an executive producer. On April 29, 2016, it was announced that John Krasinski had been cast in the series' title role. On November 3, 2016, it was reported that Abbie Cornish had been cast as Ryan's fiancée Cathy Mueller. On December 16, 2016, it was announced that Wendell Pierce, Ali Suliman, and Dina Shihabi had been cast in series regular roles. In March 2017, it was announced that Peter Fonda, Mena Massoud, Timothy Hutton, and Al Sapienza had been cast in recurring roles. On June 5, 2017, it was reported that Amir El-Masry had joined the series in a supporting role. Alongside the announcement of the series' renewal, it was confirmed that Krasinski and Pierce would return for the second season. On May 4, 2018, it was reported John Hoogenakker had been promoted to a series regular for season two after previously appearing in season one in a recurring capacity. On July 20, 2018, it was announced during Amazon's San Diego Comic-Con panel that Noomi Rapace had joined the main cast for season two. In August 2018, it was announced that Michael Kelly, Jovan Adepo, Jordi Molla, Cristina Umaña, and Francisco Denis had joined the cast of season two as series regulars. On September 25, 2018, it was reported that Tom Wlaschiha had been cast in a recurring role for season two. Jack Ryan was filmed in multiple locations. On May 10, 2017, Krasinski was spotted filming his scenes in Washington, D.C. For the next several days the TV series was also shot in Maryland, Virginia, Quebec, London, and Morocco. Some scenes were shot in Paris, France and Chamonix. The first season features approximately 1,000 visual effects shots, including the opening bombing run in the pilot episode. Production for season two began in the summer of 2018 in Europe, South America, and the United States. Shooting locations included Colombia , London, Moscow and New York.. During September 2017, a series of promotional teasers were uploaded across the TV series's official social media accounts, culminating with the final teaser showing first footage of John Krasinski as Jack Ryan which was released on October 3, 2017. On October 7, 2017, the series made its debut at the New York Comic Con coinciding with the release of a new teaser trailer. Krasinski, Cornish and creators Cuse and Roland attended the NYCC panel, where they also debuted the first seven minutes of the pilot episode. On January 30, 2018, the Super Bowl trailer for the series was released online, five days before the football event and marking the first time that Prime Video has released a Super Bowl ad for one of its original shows. In a statement, Amazon Studios' head of marketing Mike Benson said, "Given the colossal scope and scale of the series coupled with the popularity of Tom Clancy’s novels, we knew Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan would be a natural fit for Prime Video’s first Super Bowl ad. The global nature of the audience provides us with a unique opportunity to give viewers a look at this thrilling new series coming to Prime." It also announced the show's release date for August 31. On June 11, 2018, the official trailer for the series was released. On July 4, 2018, a trailer entitled "Presidents", featuring quotes from U.S. Presidents Bill Clinton, Donald Trump, and John F. Kennedy, was released in tandem with U.S. Independence Day. On July 27, 2019, a teaser for the second season was released online. On June 16, 2018, the series held its world premiere at the 58th Annual Monte-Carlo Television Festival at the Grimaldi Forum in Monte Carlo, Monaco. The event included a screening of the series' pilot episode that was attended by cast members John Krasinski, Dina Shihabi and Wendell Pierce, alongside series creators, showrunners and executive producers Carlton Cuse and Graham Roland. Paramount Home Media Distribution released Blu-ray and DVD disc editions of the first season of Jack Ryan on June 4, 2019. The Blu-ray edition includes deleted scenes and Dolby Atmos soundtrack not available when viewing through Amazon Prime.. The series has been met with a positive critical response upon its premiere. On the review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the series holds an approval rating of 74% with an average rating of 6.32 out of 10, based on 81 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, "Though not as thematically rich as some of its geopolitical predecessors, Jack Ryan is a satisfying addition to the genre buoyed by exceptional action sequences and a likable cast." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the series a score of 66 out of 100 based on 28 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews". In a positive review, RogerEbert.coms Nick Allen praised the series saying, "Expertly plotted by creators Carlton Cuse and Graham Roland, Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan is all the more impactful for its restraint and scope, offering excellent character-based drama that's concerned with much more than just its namesake." Similarly favorable, The Gazettes Terry Terrones awarded the series a grade of "A−" and directed specific approval towards Krasinski's performance saying, "This version of Jack Ryan is relatable, but also admirable because the actor portraying him can balance so many aspects of the character with ease. Krasinski plays him so naturally I couldn't tell where he ended and Ryan began." In another enthusiastic appraisal, Rolling Stones Alan Sepinwall accorded the series three and a half stars out of five and complimented it saying, "Like Jack Ryan himself, the Amazon show is smart and confident and thorough. That’s enough to get the job done." In a more mixed assessment, TVLines Dave Nemetz gave the series a grade of "C+" and offered the series restrained commendation saying, "Amazon’s awkwardly titled Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan is at its best when things are exploding, delivering a number of impressively high-octane action sequences on a scale rarely seen on television. The rest of the series, though, is disappointingly mediocre ... and its choice of leading man may be a major stumbling block." In a negative critique, Vanity Fairs Sonia Saraiya chastised the show saying "Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan is hysterical. Hysterical as in histrionic; hysterical as in somehow funny; hysterical as in you wish its team had worked harder to take the temperature of the world around us before sending this highly charged and obscenely blinkered James Bond manqué into the world." Equally dismissive, Pastes Amy Amatangelo criticized the series saying, "But more often than not, the show plods along with no real sense of urgency. I often had to restrain myself from scrolling through my phone. I was that bored while I was watching. Those indoctrinated into the Jack Ryan canon via the books or the movies will find the eight-episode series is faithful to the spirit of all that preceded it. I'm just not sure we needed it at all." The series has been criticized for a scene in the episode "Black 22" in which a character uses the word tranny. LGBT activist Eliel Cruz alleged that the scene treats a major cause of as "a throwaway joke." Similarly, the series has also received criticism in French publications for its depiction of the country, specifically in the episodes "French Connection" and "Black 22", where various scenes have been condemned. Stéphanie Guerrin of Le Parisien expressed her concern for the dialogue spoken by and about the French saying, "This series of dangerously caricatural comments leaves one wondering." Le Points Bastien Haugel specifically took grievance, in an otherwise positive review, with the portrayal of a French policeman who espoused anti-Muslim views calling it "dangerously caricatural". Previews of the upcoming season two, in which Ryan ends up on a mission to Venezuela to “bring stability to a country on the brink of collapse,” has been criticized by the government of Venezuela for allegedly promoting an invasion of the country by the United States. Venezuela's Minister of Cultural Affairs Ernesto Villegas, described previews of the show as: “Crass war propaganda disguised as entertainment.” Venezuelan actor Francisco Denis, who plays Ubarri, a senior Venezuelan government official, in the new season, responded to his government's criticism by highlighting the fictional character of the series. "I don't think the CIA needs this to intervene or not in a country," he said. Denis did regret that the series has included mistakes such as the fictitious meeting of the Venezuelan president with the CIA -which, in his opinion, would never occur under the current administrations- or presenting the most powerful man in the country as "basking in luxury". Critics have also faulted season two for presenting an inverted version of the politics of Venezuela. Though Venezuela has been led by avowed socialists for two decades—Hugo Chávez followed by Nicolás Maduro—the series shows the country being led by a right-wing, polo-playing, corrupt “nationalist.” The series explicitly blames the depletion of the country's wealth on him. His political opponent is a female, progressive, “social justice”-supporting history professor. On Election Day, his ballots are red; hers are blue. In addition to critics, numerous viewers have objected to this depiction of Venezuela’s politics. As of November 4, 2019, season two had an approval rating of 81% on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 16 reviews; the site's summary stated that this season "is both bolder and more refined, doubling down on its epic espionage set-pieces while making its titular character a little more relatable". Tim Goodman of the The Hollywood Reporter gave a favorable review: "Jack Ryan is still fun, despite being a little bit ridiculous and predictable ... Not all the events described above make perfect sense and there's definitely some bloat here storytelling-wise, but that never seems to cut into the pacing. It's a strong, appealing cast and an entertaining story — the same successful formula as the first season and a welcome return visitor to the living room".