'The Irishman' . De Niro, who also served as producer, and Pacino were confirmed that month, as was Pesci, who came out of his unofficial retirement to star after being asked numerous times to take the role. Principal photography began in September 2017 in New York City and in the Mineola and Williston Park sections of Long Island, and wrapped in March 2018. With a production budget of $159 million and a runtime of 209 minutes, it is among the most expensive films of Scorsese's career, as well as his longest. The Irishman had its world premiere at the 57th New York Film Festival on September 27, 2019, and began a limited theatrical release on November 1, 2019, followed by digital streaming on Netflix starting on November 27, 2019. The film received widespread critical acclaim, with praise for Scorsese's direction and the performances of De Niro, Pacino, and Pesci.. Sitting in a nursing home in his wheelchair, the aging Frank Sheeran, a World War II veteran, recounts his time as a Mafia hitman. In 1950s Philadelphia, Sheeran drives meat packing delivery trucks and starts to sell some of the contents of his shipments to a local gangster in the Italian Philadelphia crime family. After getting accused by his company of theft, union lawyer Bill Bufalino gets him off after Sheeran refuses to give the judge any names of who he was selling to. Bill introduces Sheeran to his cousin Russell Bufalino, the head of the Northeastern Pennsylvania crime family. Sheeran begins to do jobs for Russell and members of the local South Philadelphia underworld, including murders. Soon, Russell introduces Sheeran to Jimmy Hoffa, the head of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, who has financial ties with the Bufalino crime family and is struggling to deal with fellow rising Teamster Anthony "Tony Pro" Provenzano, as well as mounting pressure from the federal government. Hoffa becomes close with Sheeran and his family, especially his daughter Peggy, and Sheeran becomes Hoffa's chief bodyguard while on the road. After the 1960 election of John F. Kennedy, Russell is thrilled while Hoffa is livid. Kennedy's brother, Robert F. Kennedy, who was named Attorney General, forms a in an effort to bring down Hoffa, who is eventually arrested and convicted in 1964 for jury tampering. While in prison, his replacement atop the Teamsters, Frank Fitzsimmons, begins overspending the groups' pension funds and making loans out to the Mafia. Hoffa's relationship with Provenzano, who was himself arrested for extortion, also deteriorates beyond repair. Hoffa is eventually released via a Presidential pardon from Richard Nixon in 1971, although he is forbidden from taking part in any Teamsters activities until 1980. Despite his parole terms, Hoffa undertakes a plan to retake his power atop the organized unions. Hoffa's growing disrespect for other Teamster leaders and related crime family interests begins to worry Russell. During a testimonial dinner in Sheeran's honor, Russell tells Sheeran to confront Hoffa and warn him that the heads of the crime families are not pleased with his behavior. Hoffa then informs Sheeran that he "knows things" that Russell and the other dons are unaware that he knows, and further claims that he is untouchable because if anything ever happened to him, they would all end up in prison. In 1975, while on their way to the wedding of Bill's daughter, Russell tells Sheeran that things have reached their breaking point with Hoffa, and his death has been sanctioned. The two drive to an airport, where Sheeran gets on a flight to Detroit. Sheeran tells Hoffa he will be in town early in the day, but arrives late that afternoon. Hoffa, who had scheduled a meeting at a local diner with Provenzano and Anthony Giacalone, is surprised to see Sheeran arriving there in a car with Hoffa's foster son Chuckie O'Brien and Sal Briguglio, another gangster. They advise Hoffa that the meeting was moved to a house where Provenzano and Russell are waiting for them; Sheeran reassures Hoffa that everything is fine and he joins them in the car. Upon entering the house, Hoffa realizes that no one else is there, and the meeting might be a setup. He turns to caution Sheeran, who then shoots him twice at point-blank range before leaving the gun and the body at the entrance. After Sheeran leaves, two younger gangsters take Hoffa's body to a crematorium to eliminate all traces of him. Sheeran, Russell, Provenzano, and others are eventually convicted on various charges, none of which are related to Hoffa's murder, and one by one, they begin to die in prison. Sheeran is eventually released and placed in a nursing home. He tries to make peace with his alienated daughters, but Peggy never forgives him for Hoffa's disappearance. Preparing for his own eventual death as a lonely man, Sheeran develops a relationship with a Catholic priest. In the final scene, the priest performs the .. Additionally, several actors appear in smaller roles, including Bo Dietl as Joey Glimco, Jim Norton as Don Rickles, Daniel Jenkins as E. Howard "Big Ears" Hunt, Paul Ben-Victor as Jake Gottlieb, Patrick Gallo as Anthony "Tony Jack" Giacalone, Jake Hoffman as Allen Dorfman, Ken Clark as James P. Hoffa, Peter Jay Fernandez as Cecil B. Moore, Jeff Moore as Frank Church, Gino Cafarelli as Frank Rizzo, and Robert Funaro as Johnny, a Friendly Lounge bartender. Unnamed roles include Jonathan Morris and James Martin as priests, Action Bronson as a casket salesman, Vinny Vella as a meat company yard manager, Matt Walton as a TV host, and Dascha Polanco as a nurse..  Robert De Niro "got the project underway" after reading a copy of the 2004 book I Heard You Paint Houses written by Charles Brandt, with Martin Scorsese saying that De Niro "became rather emotional" as he told him about the lead character. Scorsese then became interested in directing a film adaptation of the book and in casting De Niro, Al Pacino, and Joe Pesci. The film started its development phase in 2007. New plot materials and rewrites caused the movie to lose its place in the film release calendar, and Scorsese went on to direct three more films, Hugo , to see if the de-aging could work. Scorsese said that "the risk was there, and that was it. We just tried to make the film. After sitting on the couch for ten years the music score for The Irishman was an unusual feat. We were trying to discover a sound, a mood, a feel, that could work, over the many decades that this story takes place." Robertson also wrote the score for the film, although only his "Theme for the Irishman" appears on the soundtrack.. The Irishman had its world premiere at the 57th New York Film Festival on September 27, 2019, and received a limited theatrical release on November 1, 2019, followed by digital streaming on Netflix starting on November 27, 2019. The Irishmans international premiere was at the Closing Night Gala of the BFI London Film Festival on October 13, 2019. The festival's director Tricia Tuttle said it was an "immense cinephile thrill" to close the event with an "epic of breathtakingly audacious scale and complexity" from "one of the true greats of cinema." The film also had screenings at the following film festivals: Mill Valley, Hamptons, Lumière, San Diego, Mumbai, Rome, Philadelphia, Chicago, Tokyo, Camerimage, Los Cabos, Mar del Plata, and Cairo. Additionally, from November 1 to December 1, 2019, The Irishman screened at the Belasco Theatre in New York City, making it the first film to ever screen in the Belasco's 112-year history.The Irishman received a limited theatrical release on November 1, 2019 in the United States. As part of the continuing tensions between the film markets for direct to digital streaming and theatrical releases and distribution of films, several theater chains protested the policy of Netflix for the release of Scorsese's The Irishman. The film will not play at the theaters owned by AMC, Cinemark, Regal or Cineplex, because the "four week progression to SVOD remains unacceptable to those chains." It was previously reported in February 2019 that Netflix would possibly give the film a wide theatrical release, at the request of Scorsese. The heads of several theater chains, including AMC's Adam Aron, who refused to play Roma the previous November, said they would only be open to playing The Irishman if Netflix "respects the decades old theatrical window, that suggests that movies come to theaters first for a couple of months, and then go to the home." Two major chains offered to exhibit the film if given an exclusivity window of 60 days, approximately two weeks shorter than the typical window, but could not reach an agreement with Netflix. In the United Kingdom, Altitude Film Distribution launched the film through the Everyman and Curzon cinema chains, where the movie played on about 80 screens, while other British theater chains, including Picturehouse, Vue, and Odeon, turned down the film in order to uphold the 90-day window that was standard practice across much of Europe. In Italy, The Irishman played on about 100 screens via Cineteca di Bologna, the same distributor that released Roma in 2018 and caused an uproar among Italian exhibitors, but there haven't been any protests over The Irishman. The film also received limited releases in Germany, Spain, Japan, South Korea and Australia. The film did not play in France because of the country's 30-month window between a movie's theatrical release and its availability on TV and other outlets. Despite all of this, The Irishman became Netflix's biggest theatrical release both in the United States and internationally. The announcement trailer for the film premiered during the 91st Academy Awards ceremony on February 24, 2019. Netflix then released a teaser trailer on July 31, 2019, while the official trailer debuted on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on September 25, 2019. The final trailer was released on November 19, 2019. To promote the release of the film on its streaming service, Netflix took over five blocks of Little Italy, Manhattan on November 22 and 23, 2019 and back-dated them to August 1, 1975, the day after Jimmy Hoffa was reported missing..  The Irishman opened at three theaters in New York City and five in Los Angeles on November 1, 2019; while Netflix does not publicly disclose box office figures for its films, IndieWire estimated that it grossed a "strong" $350,000 in its opening weekend, an average $43,750 per venue. Deadline noted that numerous showtimes at several theaters, including Grauman's Egyptian Theatre in Los Angeles and the IFC Center in New York, had sold-out showings. The website also argued that had the film gone wide theatrically it likely would have become a box office bomb given its 209-minute runtime and large budget, noting another period-setting crime film with a long runtime that opened the same weekend, Motherless Brooklyn, failed to meet its projections. Conversely, CNBC wrote that Netflix was "leaving millions on the table" by not giving the film a wide theatrical release, and claimed it could have legged out to at least $100 million at the domestic box office, citing the high demand for tickets during its opening weekend and that Scorsese's last gangster film, The Departed, made $132 million in 2006. Expanding to 22 theaters in its second weekend, the film made an estimated $440,000, for a ten-day running total of about $940,000. It then grossed an estimated $1.25 million from 175 theaters in its third week, and $1.2 million from 200 in its fourth. Despite being released on Netflix on November 27, the film expanded to 500 theaters in its fifth weekend, "close to the maximum number with most top theater chains refusing to let their customers have a chance to see it in theaters despite the acclaim and interest", and made an estimated $1 million. , The Irishman has grossed an estimated $5.9 million in North America and $555,546 in other territories, for a worldwide total of $6.5 million. On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 96% based on 327 reviews, with an average rating of 8.87/10. The website's critics consensus reads: "An epic gangster drama that earns its extended runtime, The Irishman finds Martin Scorsese revisiting familiar themes to poignant, funny, and profound effect." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 94 out of 100 based on 54 critics, indicating "universal acclaim". Writing for TIME, Stephanie Zacharek gave The Irishman a perfect score, calling the film "clever and entertaining, to the point where you may think that's all it's going to be" and that "its last half-hour is deeply moving in a way that creeps up on you, and it's then that you see what Scorsese was working toward all along"; she also added that "the de-aging is distracting at first transcends his own signature genre and creates a film that methodically transforms itself into an exploration of our very own universally shared mortality. The film is absolutely breathtaking."