'Knives Out' is a 2019 American mystery film written, produced, and directed by Rian Johnson. Described as a modern take on the whodunit murder mystery, the film follows a family gathering gone awry, after the family patriarch's death leads a master detective to investigate. The film stars an ensemble cast, including Daniel Craig, Chris Evans, Ana de Armas, Jamie Lee Curtis, Michael Shannon, Don Johnson, Toni Collette, Lakeith Stanfield, Katherine Langford, Jaeden Martell, and Christopher Plummer. Knives Out had its world premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 7, 2019, and was theatrically released in the United States on November 27, 2019, by Lionsgate. The film received critical acclaim, with particular praise for the performances, humor, as well as Johnson's direction and script. The film has currently grossed $70 million worldwide.. Wealthy crime novelist Harlan Thrombey invites his extended family to his mansion for his 85th birthday party. The next morning, Harlan's housekeeper Fran finds him dead, his throat slit. The death is ruled a suicide, but an anonymous figure hires Kentucky private detective Benoit Blanc to investigate. Blanc learns that Harlan had alienated many of the family: he had threatened to expose his son-in-law, Richard, for having an affair; discovered that Joni, his daughter-in-law, was stealing money meant for his granddaughter's tuition; fired his youngest son, Walt, from his publishing company; and cut his lazy grandson Ransom out of his will. Unknown to Blanc, after the party, Harlan's nurse, Marta Cabrera, took Harlan upstairs to give him his medication. Marta accidentally mixed up the medication, injecting Harlan with a fatal dose of morphine. Minutes from death, Harlan gave Marta strict instructions on how to avoid suspicion, and slit his own throat, creating the appearance of a suicide. Marta followed Harlan's instructions, covering up the time of death. As Marta's good conscience means she cannot lie without vomiting, she hides the truth from the police by carefully avoiding their questions. Trusting her, Blanc asks her to accompany him in his investigation. They search the property for clues, which Marta hastily conceals before they are noticed. The family are shocked to hear from Harlan's lawyer that he left everything to Marta. They turn on her, but Ransom helps her escape. At a restaurant, Marta confesses to him. The other Thrombeys realize that, under the slayer rule, they will regain their inheritance if they can prove Marta killed Harlan, and insist Blanc continue the investigation. Marta receives a blackmail note with a partial photocopy of Harlan's toxicology report. She and Ransom drive to the medical examiner's office, but it has been torched. Marta discovers an email with a time and address, presumably from the blackmailer. When Blanc spots her and Ransom, Marta speeds away, but the police catch them. Ransom is arrested; Blanc explains that Harlan's mother said she saw him at the house. Marta lies that Ransom forced her to drive, and vomits without Blanc noticing. Marta goes to the address in the email and discovers Fran drugged. She performs CPR and calls 911. Marta confesses everything to Blanc, but Ransom has already informed on her. At the house, Marta finds a copy of the full toxicology report hidden in Fran's cannabis stash. Marta is about to confess to the family, but Blanc interrupts her when he spots something in the report. He brings Marta, Ransom and the police to a room to reveal his deductions. After Ransom learned that Harlan was leaving everything to Marta, he swapped the contents of Marta's medication vials, so she would kill Harlan through an overdose, thus making her ineligible to inherit. After the death was ruled a suicide, he anonymously hired Blanc to discover Marta's guilt. After Fran saw Ransom swapping the vials back later, she sent him the blackmail letter; Ransom sent this to Marta after cutting out the address and time which allowed him to meet with Fran before Marta's supposed appointmeint. Ransom burnt down the medical examiner's office to destroy Harlan's blood report, then drugged Fran with morphine and emailed her location to Marta, planning to frame Marta for Fran's murder. The toxicology report shows that Harlan had not been poisoned; in fact, Marta, an experienced nurse, gave Harlan the correct medication without reading the labels. Marta receives a call from the hospital and says that Fran is alive. Believing that Fran will implicate him, Ransom angrily confesses, vowing revenge as Fran surviving means he has committed no serious crime that would lead to a long sentence. Marta then vomits on Ransom, having lied that Fran survived and tricking Ransom into confessing to everything. Realising that he has been tricked, Ransom attacks her with a knife on display in the room, but discovers it is a retractable stage knife. As he is taken into custody, Marta watches the Thrombeys leave the premises of the mansion that is now hers.. * Daniel Craig as Benoit Blanc: a private detective who is called upon to investigate Harlan's murder. Chris Evans as Hugh Ransom Drysdale: Harlan's grandson, Linda and Richard's son, and a spoiled playboy. Ana de Armas as Marta Cabrera: The protagonist of the film, Harlan's nurse and caretaker who had a close relationship with him. Jamie Lee Curtis as Linda Drysdale: Harlan's eldest daughter and Richard's wife. She is a real estate mogul who runs her own company – started with a $1m loan from her father – with her husband's support. Michael Shannon as Walter "Walt" Thrombey: Harlan's youngest son, Donna's husband, and the acting CEO of his dad's publishing company. Don Johnson as Richard Drysdale: Harlan's son-in-law and Linda's husband, who helps run his wife's company. Toni Collette as Joni Thrombey: Harlan's daughter-in-law and deceased son Neil's wife, who is a lifestyle guru and "influencer". Lakeith Stanfield as Detective Lieutenant Elliot: a local detective involved in the murder investigation. Katherine Langford as Megan "Meg" Thrombey: Harlan's granddaughter, Joni and Neil's daughter, who studies at a prestigious liberal arts college. Jaeden Martell as Jacob Thrombey: Harlan's grandson, Walt and Donna's son, who holds alt-right views and is always on the Internet on his phone. Christopher Plummer as Harlan Thrombey: a successful mystery novelist. He is wealthy and has three children — daughter Linda and sons Walt and the deceased Neil. He invites the family to his house for his 85th birthday and is found dead the next morning. Noah Segan as Trooper Wagner: a police officer involved with the investigation and a fan of Harlan's work. Edi Patterson as Fran: Harlan's housekeeper. Riki Lindhome as Donna Thrombey: Harlan's daughter-in-law and Walt's wife. K Callan as Wanetta "Great Nana" Thrombey: Harlan's aged mother. Frank Oz as Alan Stevens: Harlan's lawyer. M. Emmet Walsh as Mr. Proofroc Marlene Forte as Marta's mother Raúl Castillo as a Cop Joseph Gordon-Levitt has a voice cameo as Detective Hardrock.. After making the 2005 film Brick, writer and director Rian Johnson came up with the basic concept for Knives Out. In June 2010, he expressed interest in making an Agatha Christie-inspired murder mystery film. He told The Independent that he wanted to make the film after finishing Looper . Knives Out was announced in September 2018, with Daniel Craig starring. It was sold to distributors during the 2018 Toronto International Film Festival. In October 2018, Chris Evans, Lakeith Stanfield, Michael Shannon, Ana de Armas, Don Johnson, Jamie Lee Curtis, and Toni Collette joined the cast. In November 2018, Christopher Plummer, Jaeden Martell, Katherine Langford, Riki Lindhome, Edi Patterson, and Raúl Castillo joined the cast. Frequent Johnson collaborator Noah Segan was announced as being in the film in December. Shannon has compared the film to the works of Christie. In March 2019, Frank Oz, who previously worked with Johnson in The Last Jedi, revealed that he would be appearing in a small role. Johnson cited several classic mystery thrillers and mystery comedies as influences, including The Last of Sheila, Murder on the Orient Express, Something's Afoot, Murder by Death, Death on the Nile, The Private Eyes, The Mirror Crack'd, Evil Under the Sun, Deathtrap, Clue, and Gosford Park. Principal photography began on October 30, 2018, in Boston, Massachusetts and wrapped on December 20, 2018. Filming locations included Marlborough, Natick, Wellesley, Maynard, Waltham, Medfield and Canton.. Knives Out had its world premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 7, 2019. It was theatrically released on November 27, 2019, by Lionsgate..  , Knives Out has grossed $41.7 million in the United States and Canada, and $28.3 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $70 million. In the United States and Canada, Knives Out was released alongside Queen & Slim, and was initially projected to gross $22–25 million from 3,391 theaters over its five-day opening weekend. The film held advance screenings on November 22 and 23, making $2 million from 936 theaters. It then made $8.5 million , finishing second behind Frozen II. On the review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 96% based on 281 reviews, with an average rating of 8.34/10. The website's critics' consensus reads: "Knives Out sharpens old murder-mystery tropes with a keenly assembled suspense outing that makes brilliant use of writer-director Rian Johnson's stellar ensemble." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 82 out of 100, based on reviews from 49 critics, indicating "universal acclaim". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "A–" on an A+ to F scale, while those at PostTrak gave it an average 4.5 out of 5 stars, with 67% saying they would definitely recommend it. David Rooney, writing for The Hollywood Reporter, described the film as an "ingeniously plotted, tremendously entertaining and deviously irreverent crowd-pleaser" and "a treat from start to finish", praising the film's script, the throwbacks to the murder mysteries of the 1970s, and the actors' performances. Dana Stevens of Slate wrote "Knives Out knows exactly what kind of movie it is: a sendup of twisty murder mysteries with all-star ensemble casts that also loves and respects that silly tradition." For The AV Club, A.A. Dowd called the film "madly entertaining" and "an ingenious sleight-of-hand crowdpleaser". David Ehrlich of IndieWire gave the film an A-, writing "Johnson has devised a murder-mystery that’s eager to defy your expectations, but unwilling to betray your trust. The film may be more smart than stylish, and it may opt for a reasonable outcome over an overwhelmingly shocking one, but Knives Out doesn’t let the element of surprise ruin a good story."