The 2020 Democratic Party presidential primaries and caucuses will be a series of electoral contests organized by the Democratic Party to select the approximately 3,769 pledged delegates to the Democratic National Convention. Those delegates shall, by pledged votes, elect the Democratic nominee for president of the United States in the 2020 U.S. presidential election. The elections are scheduled to take place from February to June 2020 in all fifty U.S. states, the District of Columbia, five U.S. territories, and Democrats Abroad. Independently of the result of primaries and caucuses, the Democratic Party will, from its group of party leaders and elected officials, also appoint 765 unpledged delegates . The field of major Democratic presidential candidates in the 2020 election peaked at more than two dozen. 16 major candidates are seeking the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020. The October 15, 2019, Democratic presidential debate in Westerville, Ohio, featured 12 candidates, setting a record for the highest number of candidates in one presidential debate.. After Hillary Clinton's loss in the previous election, many felt the Democratic Party lacked a clear leader. Divisions remained in the party following the 2016 primaries, which pitted Clinton against Bernie Sanders. Between the 2016 election and the 2018 midterm elections, Senate Democrats have generally shifted to the political left in relation to college tuition, healthcare, and immigration. The 2018 elections saw the Democratic Party regain the House of Representatives for the first time in eight years, picking up seats in both urban and suburban districts. Soon after the 2016 general election, the division between Clinton and Sanders supporters was highlighted in the 2017 Democratic National Committee chairmanship election between Tom Perez and Keith Ellison. Perez was narrowly elected chairman and subsequently appointed Ellison as the Deputy Chair, a largely ceremonial role. The 2020 field of Democratic presidential candidates peaked at more than two dozen candidates. According to Politifact, this field is believed to be the largest field of presidential candidates for any American political party since 1972; it exceeds the field of 17 major candidates that sought the Republican presidential nomination in 2016. In May 2019, CBS News referred to the field of 2020 Democratic presidential candidates as "the largest and most diverse Democratic primary field in modern history", including at least six female presidential candidates. 18 major candidates are seeking the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020. On August 25, 2018, the Democratic National Committee .. Major candidates in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries have either: Maxine Waters, U.S. representative from California Oprah Winfrey, television host and network executive from California Mark Zuckerberg, technology executive from California. In the weeks following the election of Donald Trump in the 2016 election, media speculation regarding potential candidates for the 2020 Democratic Party presidential primaries began to circulate. As the Senate began confirmation hearings for members of the cabinet, speculation centered on the prospects of the "hell-no caucus”, six senators who went on to vote against the majority of Trump's nominees. According to Politico, the members of the "hell-no caucus" were Cory Booker, Kamala Harris, Kirsten Gillibrand, Bernie Sanders, Jeff Merkley, and Elizabeth Warren. Other speculation centered on then-Vice-President Joe Biden making a third presidential bid following failed attempts in 1988 and 2008. Biden had previously served as U.S. senator from Delaware was held at Eastern State Penitentiary in Philadelphia, PA by The Marshall Project and the Voter Education Project. November 1:*Beto O'Rourke dropped out of the race.*The Liberty and Justice Celebration was held at Wells Fargo Arena in Des Moines, IA by the Iowa Democratic Party. November 3: The Problem Solver Convention was held at DoubleTree Hotel in Manchester, NH by No Labels. November 8:*Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg prepares to enter the race by getting on the ballot in Alabama.*The Presidential Forum on Environmental Justice was held at South Carolina State University in Orangeburg, SC by the National Black Caucus of State Legislators. November 13: This was the deadline to qualify for the fifth Democratic debate. November 14: Former Governor of Massachusetts Deval Patrick entered the race. November 16: The California Democratic Party Fall Endorsing Convention Forum was held at Long Beach Arena, Long Beach, California by the California Democratic Party/Univision.November 17: The Nevada State Democratic Party's First In The West "cattle call" event was held.November 19: Wayne Messam dropped out of the race.November 20: The fifth Democratic debate took place in Atlanta, Georgia, co-hosted by MSNBC and The Washington Post.November 21: Bloomberg formed an exploratory committee.November 24: Bloomberg announced his candidacy with a website launch. December 1: Former Representative Joe Sestak drops out of the race. December 2: Governor Steve Bullock drops out of the race. December 12: This is the deadline to qualify for the sixth Democratic debate. December 19: The sixth Democratic debate will take place in Los Angeles, California, at Loyola Marymount University.* January: This is the deadline to qualify for the seventh Democratic debate. January: the seventh, and final, pre-primary Democratic debate takes place. February 15-17: these are the dates for which , to be held at University of Nevada, Las Vegas in Nevada by the The International Union of Operating Engineers, the Transport Workers Union of America, the American Public Transportation Association, the The American Road and Transportation Builders Association, the Association of Equipment Manufacturers, the American Society of Civil Engineers, and others is scheduled.. The following primary and caucus dates have been scheduled by state statutes or state party decisions, but are subject to change pending legislation, state party delegate selection plans, or the decisions of state secretaries of state: February 3: Iowa caucuses February 11: New Hampshire primary February 22: Nevada caucuses February 29: South Carolina primary March 3: Super Tuesday . The number of states holding caucuses decreased from 14 in the to only three in 2020.. The 2020 Democratic National Convention is scheduled to take place in Milwaukee, Wisconsin on July 13–16, 2020. In addition to Milwaukee, the DNC also considered bids from three other cities: Houston, Texas; Miami Beach, Florida; and Denver, Colorado. Denver, though, was immediately withdrawn from consideration by representatives for the city, who cited scheduling conflicts.. This is an overview of the money being raised and spent by each campaign for the entire period running from January 1, 2017 to September 30, 2019, as it was reported to the Federal Election Commission , has been calculated by subtracting the "spent" amount from the "raised" amount, thereby showing the remaining cash each campaign had available for its future spending In total the candidates have raised $476,284,606.