The 2019 United Kingdom general election is scheduled to be held on 12 December 2019. It is to be held under the provisions of the Early Parliamentary General Election Act 2019, two and a half years after the previous general election in June 2017.. The 2019 election is due to be the first UK general election to be held in December since 1923, and was arranged at short notice in late October. Each parliamentary constituency of the United Kingdom elects one Member of Parliament may be able to register to vote at both addresses as long as they are not in the same electoral area, but can only vote in one constituency at the general election. The election is to be contested under the same boundaries for 650 constituencies that have been used since the 2010 general election. The Sixth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies, tasked by the Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Act 2011 with reducing the number of constituencies to 600, proposed modified boundaries. These boundary changes are not due to be implemented until they have been approved by both Houses of Parliament, and the government did not submit the proposed changes for consideration before the election was called. Voters in Great Britain may freely apply to vote by post, and voters in Northern Ireland can vote by post if they give a reason they could not vote in person. Postal ballots need to reach the relevant Electoral Office by the time of the close of polls, or be handed into the voter's local polling station, in order to be counted. Voters may apply to allow another person to cast a proxy vote for them if they can give a valid reason why this is required.. The deadline for delivery of candidates' nomination papers was 14 November. The election is scheduled for 12 December 2019, with polling stations opening at 7am and closing at 10pm. This date occurred despite the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 Parliament of the United Kingdom, for the formal election of a Speaker of the Commons and the swearing-in of members, ahead of the State Opening of the new Parliament's first session..  The Conservative Party and Labour Party have been the two biggest political parties, and have supplied every Prime Minister, since 1922. The Conservative Party have governed since the 2010 election, in coalition with the Liberal Democrats from 2010 to 2015. At the 2015 general election the Conservative Party committed to offering a referendum on whether the UK should leave the European Union and won a majority in that election. A referendum was held in June 2016, and the Leave campaign won by 51.9% to 48.1%. The UK initiated the withdrawal process in March 2017, and Prime Minister Theresa May triggered a snap general election in 2017, in order to demonstrate support for her planned negotiation of Brexit. The Conservative Party won a plurality of MPs, but not a majority; they formed a minority government, with the Democratic Unionist Party and whether parties would stand in all seats or not. There were various . The Brexit Party chose not to stand against sitting Conservative candidates, but are standing in most other constituencies. The Brexit Party alleged that pressure was put on their candidates by the Conservatives to withdraw, including the offer of peerages, which would be illegal. This was denied by the Conservative Party. The Liberal Democrats, Plaid Cymru and the Green Party of England and Wales agreed an electoral pact in some seats, Unite to Remain, but some commentators criticised the Liberal Democrats for not standing down in some Labour seats. Several former Labour MPs critical of Corbyn endorsed the Conservatives. Meanwhile, several former Conservative MPs endorsed the Liberal Democrats and/or independent candidates, including the former deputy Prime Minister, Michael Heseltine. A terrorist stabbing attack happened in London on 29 November, because of which the political parties suspended campaigning in London. The 2019 NATO summit is due to be held in The Grove, Watford, United Kingdom, on 3 and 4 of December 2019. 29 heads of state and heads of government, including Donald Trump, are due to attend.. Most candidates are representatives of a political party, which must be registered with the Electoral Commission's Register of Political Parties. Candidates who do not belong to a registered party can use an "independent" label, or no label at all. Across the United Kingdom, there are 3,415 candidates representing 68 political parties, including 206 independent candidates. Major parties ; neither party is standing in Belfast East or North Down and advising their supporters to vote Alliance in those two constituencies. The Green Party in Northern Ireland is not standing in any of the four Belfast constituencies, backing the SDLP in Belfast South, Sinn Féin in Belfast North and West, and Alliance in Belfast East and North Down; the party is standing only in the safe seats of East Antrim, Strangford and West Tyrone. Alliance are not standing down in any seats, describing the plans as "sectarian". At the 2017 election, more than 1 in 8 seats were won by a margin of 5% or less of votes, whilst almost 1 in 4 were won by 10% or less. These seats are seen as crucial in deciding the election. The following MPs elected in 2017 are contesting the 2019 election for a different party or as an independent candidate, with a number of these moving to different constituencies. The following candidates withdrew from campaigning or had support from their party withdrawn after the close of nominations. These candidates will however remain on the ballot paper in their constituency..  According to Loughborough University's Centre for Research in Communication and Culture featured in 23.9% of coverage and men in 76.1%. Men spoke three times as much as women in TV coverage, and five times as much in newspaper coverage.. ===Institute of Fiscal Studies , an influential research body, released their in-depth analysis of the manifestos of the three main national political parties. The analysis both provides a summary of the financial promises made by each party, and an inspection of the accuracy of claims around government income and expenditure. Their analysis of the Conservative manifesto concluded there was "essentially nothing new in the manifesto", that there was "little in the way of changes to tax, spending, welfare or anything else", and noted that they had already promised increased spending for health and education whilst in government. The Labour manifesto was described as introducing "enormous economic and social change", and increasing the role of the state to be bigger than anything in the last 40 years. They highlight a raft of changes in including free childcare, university, personal care and prescriptions, as well nationalisations, labour market regulations, increases in the minimum wage, and enforcing "effective ownership of 10% of large companies from current owners to a combination of employees and government". Labour's vision, the IFS said, "is of a state not so dissimilar to those seen in many other successful Western European economies" and presumed that the manifesto should be seen as "a long-term prospectus for change rather than a realistic deliverable plan for a five-year parliament". Although not as radical as the Labour manifesto, they note the Liberal Democrat manifesto is a "decisive move away from the policies of the past decade". The IFS described the figures stated in neither the Conservative or Labour manifesto as a "properly credible prospectus". The Conservative manifesto was criticised for a commitment to not raise rates of income tax, NICs or VAT as this put a significant constraint to react events that might affect government finances. One such event could be the "die in a ditch" promise to terminate the Brexit transition period by the end of 2020, which risked harming the economy.. The also state that it is "highly likely" spending would be higher than in their manifesto, partly due to a number of uncosted commitments. Outside of commitments to the NHS, the proposals would leave public service spending 14% lower in 2023-24 than it was in 2010-11, which the IFS described as "no more austerity perhaps, but an awful lot of it baked in". The IFS stated they had "serious doubt" that tax rises proposed would raise the amount Labour suggested, and that they would need to introduce more broad based tax increases. They assess that the public sector does not have the capacity to increase investment spending as Labour would want. The IFS assesses the claim that tax rises will only hit the top 5% of earners, as "certainly progressive", but "clearly not true", with those under that threshold impacted by changes to the marriage allowance, taxes on dividends or capital gains, and lower wages/higher prices that might be passed on from corporation tax changes. Some of Labour's proposals are described as "huge and complex undertakings", where significant care is required in implementation. The IFS is particularly critical of the policy to compensate the so-called "WASPI women", announced after the manifesto, which is a £58bn promise to women who are "relatively well off on average" and will result in public finances going off target. They note though that Labour's manifesto would not increase UK public spending as a share of national income above Germany. They found that Labour's plan to to spend and invest would boost economic growth, but the impact of tax rises, government regulation, nationalisations and the inclusive ownership fund could reduce growth, meaning the overall impact of Labour's plan on growth is uncertain. The IFS described the Liberal Democrats' plans as a "radical" tax and spend package, but that the proposals would require lower borrowing than Conservative or Labour plans. The report said they were the only party whose proposals would put debt "on a decisively downward path", praising their plan to put 1p on income tax to go to the NHS as "simple, progressive and would raise a secure level of revenue". The IFS also described plans to "virtually quintuple" current spending levels on universal free childcare amounted to "creating a whole new leg of the universal welfare state".. The chart below depicts the results of opinion polls, mostly only of voters in Great Britain, conducted from the 2017 United Kingdom general election until the present. The line plotted is the average of the last 15 polls. The first-past-the-post system used in UK general elections means that the number of seats won is not directly related to vote share. Thus, several approaches are used to convert polling data and other information into seat predictions. The table below lists some of the predictions. Note: Elections etc does not add up to 650 seats due to rounding; the Speaker is shown under "Others" and not "Labour" except by Electoral Calculus; majority figures assume all elected members take up their seats.