Adam Bennett Schiff is an American politician serving as the U.S. Representative for since 2013. A member of the Democratic Party, Schiff is currently in his 10th term as a congressman, having served since 2001. Schiff's district, numbered as the 27th from 2001 to 2003 and as the 29th from 2003 and 2013, has been centered in the San Gabriel Valley east of Los Angeles, including Pasadena, Glendale and his hometown of Burbank. For his first six terms, he represented a district included the areas of Alhambra, Altadena, San Gabriel, Burbank, Glendale, South Pasadena, Temple City, Monterey Park and Pasadena. In 2010, his district's boundaries were re-drawn to include, among others, La Cañada Flintridge and La Crescenta-Montrose as well as large slices of Los Angeles itself including Sunland-Tujunga, Hollywood, the Hollywood Hills, West Hollywood, Echo Park, Silver Lake and Los Feliz. He currently serves as Chairman of the United States House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. He is currently on leave from the House Appropriations Committee which he joined in 2007. He previously served on the United States House Foreign Affairs Committee and the State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee.. Schiff was born in Framingham, Massachusetts, the son of Edward and Sherrill Ann Schiff. He was raised in a Jewish family, and moved to Danville, California, during high school. He graduated from Monte Vista High School in 1978 and received a Bachelor of Arts in political science from Stanford University in 1982 and a Juris Doctor from Harvard Law School in 1985. After law school, Schiff served as a law clerk for Judge William Matthew Byrne Jr. of the United States District Court for the Central District of California. From 1987 to 1993, he was an Assistant United States Attorney in the Office of the United States Attorney for the Central District of California. While in this position, Schiff came to public attention when he prosecuted the case against Richard Miller, a former FBI agent who was convicted of spying for the Soviet Union. The first trial resulted in a hung jury; the second trial resulted in a conviction that was overturned on appeal. Miller was convicted in a third trial. In May 1994, Schiff was a candidate for the 43rd district seat in the California State Assembly in a special election and lost to Republican nominee James E. Rogan. That November, he was the unsuccessful Democratic nominee for a full term, again losing to Rogan.. In 1996, Schiff was elected to represent the 21st district in the California State Senate. During his four year term, Schiff served as chairman of the senate's judiciary committee. As a state senator, Schiff authored Senate Bill 1847, Chapter 1021. Signed into law in 1998, this legislation created the Pasadena Blue Line Authority, which continued work on the stalled Blue Line light rail extension to Pasadena, which was later renamed the Gold Line.. In 2000, Schiff was the Democratic nominee for the U.S. House of Representatives in California's 27th congressional district. On November 7, 2000, Schiff defeated Republican incumbent James E. Rogan, and he began serving his first term on January 3, 2001. He was reelected every two years from 2002 to 2018, and began serving his 10th term in Congress in January 2019. Schiff voted in favor of the 2003 invasion of Iraq. In February 2015, discussing how or whether to tailor Bush-era plans from 2001 and 2002 to fight ISIS, Schiff was asked if he regretted voting to invade. He said, "Absolutely. Unfortunately, our intelligence was dead wrong on that, on Saddam at that time. The vote set in motion a cascading series of events which have t the end of the day we need to make sure that our president is operating not in his personal best interests and not because he's worried about what the Russians might have but because what he is doing is in America's best interest. The fact that we have questions about this is in itself harmful". The following morning on Twitter, Trump referred to Schiff as "Sleazy Adam Schiff, the totally biased Congressman looking into 'Russia'" and called the Russian collusion investigation "the Dem loss excuse". Schiff responded on Twitter that the president's "comments and actions are beneath the dignity of the office". In December 2018 Schiff suggested that Trump associate Roger Stone may have lied to Congress, and said the transcript of his testimony should be forwarded to the Special Counsel. Stone hit back, saying Schiff was "a con man." In November 2019 Stone was convicted of lying to Congress. When he became Chair of the House Intelligence Committee in 2019, Schiff took a personal mission to investigate Trump's connections to Russia, separate from the investigation by the Special Counsel. Schiff came under fire when he demurred when asked if he would accept it if the Special Counsel's investigation concluded that Donald Trump did not collude with Russia, saying that he has great confidence in Mueller but that "there may be, for example, evidence of collusion or conspiracy that is clear and convincing, but not proof beyond a reasonable doubt," as is needed for a criminal conviction. On March 28, 2019, the nine Republican members of the House Intelligence Committee officially called for Schiff to resign due to his allegations that President Trump's campaign colluded with Russians in the 2016 election. Schiff responded by accusing the Republican members of tolerating "immoral" and "corrupt" conduct by Trump campaign members and administration appointees. Schiff called North Korea "one of the most brutal and despotic regimes in the world". After the death of American student Otto Warmbier who had been imprisoned during a visit to North Korea, Schiff said: "The barbaric treatment of Otto Warmbier by the North Korean regime amounts to the murder of a U.S. citizen". In April 2018, asked whether he thought Trump deserved at least partial credit for North Korea's involvement in talks with the US, Schiff responded: "I think it's more than fair to say that the combination of the president's unpredictability and indeed, his bellicosity had something to do with the North Koreans deciding to come to the negotiating table". Schiff is a supporter of Israel. In December 2016, Schiff urged President Obama to veto UN Security Council Resolution 2334, which condemned Israeli settlement building in the occupied Palestinian territories as a violation of international law. In February 2019, Rep. Ilhan Omar tweeted, "It's all about the Benjamins baby" in reference to American politicians' support for Israel and invoked the American Israel Public Affairs Committee . It received widespread bipartisan condemnation, including from many Democratic leaders – as well as Schiff – for implying that lobby money was fueling American politicians' support of Israel. Schiff said it was "never acceptable to give voice to, or repeat, anti-Semitic smears". However, his party stopped short of a resolution specifically condemning anti-Semitism in response, proposing a motion condemning "all discriminatory remarks" to not offend Omar and her fellow Muslim-American congresswoman. After news reports that the CIA concluded that Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman had ordered the assassination of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, Trump said there was insufficient CIA evidence to link bin Salman to the murder. Schiff, the top Democrat on the House intelligence committee, was briefed by the CIA on the agency assessment, and stated afterwards that Trump was being dishonest about the CIA findings. As chair of the Intelligence Committee, Schiff is one of the lead investigators in the impeachment inquiry against Donald Trump stemming from the Trump–Ukraine scandal..  Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Co-chair of the Congressional International Anti-Piracy Caucus Co-founded the Democratic Study Group on National Security Co-founded the Congressional Caucus for Freedom of the Press Vice Chair of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus New Democrat Coalition House Baltic Caucus Congressional Arts Caucus Afterschool Caucuses Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus. In 2000, Schiff challenged Republican incumbent Jim Rogan in what was then the 27th District. The district had once been a Republican stronghold, but had been trending Democratic since the early 1990s. In what was the most expensive House race ever at the time , Schiff unseated Rogan, taking 53 percent of the vote to Rogan's 44 percent. He became only the second Democrat to represent this district since its creation in 1913. After the 2000 census, the district was renumbered as the 29th and made significantly more Democratic. As a result, Schiff has never faced another contest nearly as close as his 2000 bid, and has been reelected eight times. His district became even more Democratic after the 2010 census, when it was renumbered as the 28th and pushed into Los Angeles itself. Even before then, none of his Republican challengers had cleared 35 percent of the vote. In 2010, Schiff defeated Tea Party–backed Republican John Colbert for a sixth term. In 2012, he defeated Republican Phil Jennerjahn. In 2014, he defeated independent candidate Steve Stokes. In 2016, he defeated Republican candidate Lenore Solis. In 2018, he competed in the primary with Democratic challenger Kim Gruenenfelder. After Gruenenfelder dropped out of the race, he became the Democratic candidate and defeated Republican candidate Johnny Nalbandian.. Schiff and his wife Eve have two children, Alexa and Elijah. Schiff has participated in multiple endurance challenges, including triathlons and marathons. Schiff was the only Congressman to participate in the inaugural Washington, D.C. triathlon in 2010 and has since participated in other races in Philadelphia, New York City, and Malibu. In 2014, Schiff was the first member of Congress to participate in the AIDS/LifeCycle, a seven-day charity bike ride from San Francisco to Los Angeles to raise awareness and funding to fight HIV and AIDS. The New Yorker reported in 2018 that "Schiff has been writing screenplays on the side for years", including a murder mystery, a post-Holocaust story, and a spy drama. Schiff is vegan.