'See' is an American science fiction drama web television series produced for Apple TV+. It is written by Steven Knight and directed by Francis Lawrence. Executive producers include Knight, Lawrence, Peter Chernin, Jenno Topping, and Kristen Campo. It premiered on November 1, 2019.. In the distant future, the human race has lost the sense of sight, and society is left to find new ways to interact, build, hunt, and survive. Meanwhile, the wife of blind warrior and chieftain of Alkenny Village Baba Voss gives birth to a set of twins. To his tribe's amazement, the twins can see. As word spreads, it gets the attention of a cynical tribe and its queen who will stop at nothing to get their hands on the twins. In order to protect his children, Voss is forced to rely on his instincts and must rally fellow tribes to take down the queen and her tyrannical cult before they can capture the children. Jason Momoa as Baba Voss, leader of the Alkenny tribe. Alfre Woodard as Paris, a wise elder member of the Alkenny. Sylvia Hoeks as Queen Kane, ruler of the Payan Kingdom. Hera Hilmar as Maghra, a newcomer to the Alkenny - mother to Kofun and Haniwa, and wife of Baba Voss. Christian Camargo as Tamacti Jun, the Witchfinder General and leader of Queen Kane's army. Archie Madekwe as Kofun, son of Jerlamarel and Maghra, who has the ability to see. Nesta Cooper as Haniwa, daughter of Jerlamarel and Maghra, who also has the ability to see. Yadira Guevara-Prip as Bow Lion, an Alkenny warrior with the ability to move undetected. Mojean Aria as Gether Bax, an untrustworthy member of the Alkenny. Luc Roderique as Arca, an Alkenny warrior loyal to Baba Voss. Tantoo Cardinal as The Dreamer, an Alkenny tribe elder and mother of Bow Lion. Marilee Talkington as Souter Bax, an Alkenny tribe member and aunt of Gether Bax. Lauren Glazier as Nyrie, Queen Kane's loyal lady-in-waiting. Franz Drameh as Boots, a mysterious member of a scavenger tribe. Timothy Webber as Cutter, a silk merchant and slave owner. Joshua Henry as Jerlamarel, a heretic and preacher of sight, father of Kofun, Haniwa and Boots..  On January 10, 2018, it was announced that Apple had given the production a series order for a single eight-episode season. The series was set to be written by Steven Knight and directed by Francis Lawrence, both of whom were also expected to executive produce alongside Peter Chernin, Jenno Topping, and Kristen Campo. Production companies involved with the series were slated to consist of Chernin Entertainment and Endeavor Content. In July 2018, it was announced that Jason Momoa and Alfre Woodard had been cast in series regular roles. In August 2018, it was announced that Yadira Guevara-Prip, Nesta Cooper, Sylvia Hoeks, and Archie Madekwe had joined the main cast. On October 18, 2018, it was reported that Christian Camargo and Hera Hilmar had been cast in series regular roles. Oliver Rae Aleron and Spencer Prewett from Archspire appear in a cameo in the first episode. Principal photography for the first season commenced on September 17, 2018 in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada and was expected to last until February 8, 2019. In October 2018, filming was reported to being taking place in the Campbell River and Strathcona Provincial Park areas of Vancouver Island, British Columbia.. The review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes gave the series a 41% approval rating based on 44 reviews, with an average rating of 4.95/10. The website's critical consensus reads, "Though its capable cast is clearly game, an over-reliance on gore and a grimly—and at times comically—convoluted narrative blurs Sees bold vision." On Metacritic the series has a weighted average score of 37 out of 100 based on reviews from 20 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable reviews". Variety's Daniel D'Addario was critical of the show, saying it: "Wastes the time of Jason Momoa and Alfre Woodard, among others, on a story that starts from a position of fun, giddy strangeness and drags itself forward at a lugubrious pace." Ben Travers at IndieWire responded positively: "Steven Knight's action-drama is a strange-but-effective blend" and "the balance isn’t quite there yet, as episodes don’t exactly earn their hourlong run time. Momoa, meanwhile, fits the role well."